Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Azure Vision in Foundry Tools?
Azure Vision gives you access to advanced algorithms that process images and return information based on the visual features you're interested in. The following table lists the major product categories.
The Image Analysis 4.0 service in Azure Vision in Foundry Tools is deprecated and will be retired on September 25, 2028, after which calls made to the service will fail. We recommend you switch to one of the available alternatives outlined in the
The Face service provides AI algorithms that detect, recognize, and analyze human faces in images. Facial recognition software is important in many different scenarios, such as identification, touchless access control, and face blurring for privacy. Follow the
The Image Analysis service extracts many visual features from images, such as objects, faces, adult content, and auto-generated text descriptions. Follow the
Optical Character Recognition (OCR) (legacy)
The Optical Character Recognition (OCR) service extracts text from images. You can use the Read API to extract printed and handwritten text from photos and documents. It uses deep-learning-based models and works with text on various surfaces and backgrounds. These surfaces and backgrounds include business documents, invoices, receipts, posters, business cards, letters, and whiteboards. The OCR APIs support extracting printed text in
Azure Vision for digital asset management
Azure Vision can power many digital asset management (DAM) scenarios. DAM is the business process of organizing, storing, and retrieving rich media assets and managing digital rights and permissions. For example, a company might want to group and identify images based on visible logos, faces, objects, colors, and so on. Or, you might want to automatically generate captions for images and attach keywords so they're searchable. For an all-in-one DAM solution using Foundry Tools, Azure AI Search, and intelligent reporting, see the
Knowledge Mining Solution Accelerator Guide
on GitHub. For other DAM examples, see the
Azure Vision Solution Templates
To get started building Azure Vision into your app, follow a quickstart.
Quickstart: Optical character recognition (OCR)
Quickstart: Image Analysis
Azure Vision can analyze images that meet the following requirements:
The image must be in JPEG, PNG, GIF, or BMP format.
The file size of the image must be less than 4 megabytes (MB).
The dimensions of the image must be greater than 50 x 50 pixels.
For the Read API, the dimensions of the image must be between 50 x 50 and 10,000 x 10,000 pixels.
As with all of the Foundry Tools, developers using Azure Vision should be aware of Microsoft's policies on customer data. See the
on the Microsoft Trust Center to learn more.
Follow a quickstart to implement and run a service in your preferred development language.
Quickstart: Optical character recognition (OCR)
Quickstart: Image Analysis
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?