Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Foundry Tools help developers and organizations rapidly create intelligent, cutting-edge, market-ready, and responsible applications with out-of-the-box and prebuilt and customizable APIs and models. Example applications include natural language processing for conversations, search, monitoring, translation, speech, vision, and decision-making.
Try Foundry Tools including Azure OpenAI, Content Safety, Speech, Vision, and more in the
. For more information, see
are available through REST APIs and client library SDKs in popular development languages. For more information, see each service's documentation.
When building AI applications, use the following Foundry Tools:
Speech to text, text to speech, translation, and speaker recognition.
Use AI-powered translation technology to translate more than 100 in-use, at-risk, and endangered languages and dialects.
Build apps with industry-leading natural language understanding capabilities.
Analyze and comprehend various media content types.
Turn documents into intelligent data-driven solutions.
Analyze content in images and videos.
Bring AI-powered cloud search to your mobile and web apps.
An AI service that detects unwanted contents.
Customize image recognition for your business.
Help users read and comprehend text.
The following Foundry Tools are scheduled for retirement. These services are still available for existing applications but don't use them for new AI applications:
Identify potential problems early on.
Detect potentially offensive or unwanted content.
Understand natural language in your apps.
An AI service that detects unwanted contents.
Create rich, personalized experiences for each user.
Distill information into easy-to-navigate questions and answers.
Pricing tiers (and the amount you get billed) are based on the number of transactions you send using your authentication information. Each pricing tier specifies the:
Maximum number of allowed transactions per second (TPS).
Service features enabled within the pricing tier.
Cost for a predefined number of transactions. Going above this number causes an extra charge as specified in the
Many of the Foundry Tools have a free tier you can use to try the service. To use the free tier, use
as the SKU for your resource.
The tools that you can use to customize and configure models are different from tools that you use to call the Foundry Tools. Out of the box, most Foundry Tools allow you to send data and receive insights without any customization. For example:
You can send an image to the Azure Vision in Foundry Tools service to detect words and phrases or count the number of people in the frame
You can send an audio file to the Speech service and get transcriptions and translate the speech to text at the same time
Azure offers a wide range of tools that are designed for different types of users, many of which can be used with Foundry Tools. Designer-driven tools are the easiest to use, and are quick to set up and automate, but might have limitations when it comes to customization. Our REST APIs and client libraries provide users with more control and flexibility, but require more effort, time, and expertise to build a solution. If you use REST APIs and client libraries, there's an expectation that you're comfortable working with modern programming languages like C#, Java, Python, JavaScript, or another popular programming language.
Let's take a look at the different ways that you can work with the Foundry Tools.
Client libraries and REST APIs
Foundry Tools client libraries and REST APIs provide direct access to your service. These tools provide programmatic access to the Foundry Tools, their baseline models, and in many cases allow you to programmatically customize your models and solutions.
: Developers and data scientists.
: Provides the greatest flexibility to call the services from any language and environment.
: Azure account + Foundry Tools resources.
If you want to learn more about available client libraries and REST APIs, use our
to pick a service and get started with one of our quickstarts.
Continuous integration and deployment
You can use Azure DevOps and GitHub Actions to manage your deployments. In the
, we have two examples of CI/CD integrations to train and deploy custom models for Speech and Azure Language Understanding (LUIS) service.
: Developers, data scientists, and data engineers.
: Allows you to continuously adjust, update, and deploy applications and models programmatically. There's significant benefit when regularly using your data to improve and update models for Speech, Vision, Language, and Decision.
: Azure account + Foundry Tools resource + GitHub account.
Continuous integration and delivery with DevOps and GitHub Actions
Language Understanding and the Speech service offer continuous integration and continuous deployment solutions that are powered by Azure DevOps and GitHub Actions. These tools are used for automated training, testing, and release management of custom models.
Many of the Foundry Tools can be deployed in containers for on-premises access and use. Using these containers gives you the flexibility to bring Foundry Tools closer to your data for compliance, security, or other operational reasons. For a complete list of Azure AI containers, see
On-premises containers for Foundry Tools
Some services allow you to bring your own data, then train a model. Trained custom models allow you to extend the model using the service's data and algorithm with your own data. The output matches your needs. When you bring your own data, you might need to tag the data in a way specific to the service. For example, if you're training a model to identify flowers, you can provide a catalog of flower images along with the location of the flower in each image to train the model.
Foundry Tools in the ecosystem
With Azure and Foundry Tools, you have access to a broad ecosystem, such as:
Automation and integration tools like Logic Apps and Power Automate.
Deployment options such as Azure Functions and the App Service.
Foundry Tools Docker containers for secure access.
Tools like Apache Spark, Azure Databricks, Azure Synapse Analytics, and Azure Kubernetes Service for big data scenarios.
The APIs in Foundry Tools are hosted on a growing network of Microsoft-managed data centers. You can find the regional availability for each API in
Foundry Tools support a wide range of cultural languages at the service level. You can find the language availability for each API in the
Foundry Tools provide a layered security model, including
with Microsoft Entra credentials, a valid resource key, and
Certifications and compliance
Foundry Tools awarded certifications include Cloud Security Alliance STAR Certification, FedRAMP Moderate, and HIPAA BAA.
To understand privacy and data management, go to the
Foundry Tools provide several support options to help you move forward with creating intelligent applications. Foundry Tools also have a strong community of developers that can help answer your specific questions. For a full list of support options available to you, see
Foundry Tools support and help options
Try Foundry Tools and more in the Foundry portal
Plan and manage costs for Foundry Tools
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?