Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is automated machine learning (AutoML)?
Automated machine learning, also known as automated ML or AutoML, automates the time-consuming, iterative tasks of machine learning model development. With automated ML, data scientists, analysts, and developers can build machine learning models at scale with efficiency and productivity, while maintaining model quality. Automated ML in Azure Machine Learning is based on a breakthrough from the
Microsoft Research division
For code-experienced customers, install the
Azure Machine Learning Python SDK
Tutorial: Train an object detection model (preview) with AutoML and Python
During training, Azure Machine Learning creates many pipelines in parallel that try different algorithms and parameters for you. The service iterates through ML algorithms paired with feature selections. Each iteration produces a model with a training score. The better the score for the metric you want to optimize, the better the model fits your data. The process stops once it meets the exit criteria defined in the experiment.
, you can design and run your automated ML training experiments with these steps:
to solve: classification, forecasting, regression, computer vision, or NLP.
Choose a code-first experience or a no-code studio web experience
: Users who prefer a code-first experience can use the
Azure Machine Learning SDKv2
Azure Machine Learning CLIv2
Tutorial: Train an object detection model with AutoML and Python
. Users who prefer a limited or no-code experience can use the
in Azure Machine Learning studio at
Tutorial: Create a classification model with automated ML in Azure Machine Learning
Specify the source of the labeled training data
: Bring your data to Azure Machine Learning in
Configure the automated machine learning parameters
: Set the number of iterations over different models, hyperparameter settings, advanced preprocessing and featurization options, and the metrics to evaluate when determining the best model.
The following diagram illustrates this process.
You can also inspect the logged job information, which
gathered during the job. The training job produces a Python serialized object (
file) that contains the model and data preprocessing.
While model building is automated, you can also
learn how important or relevant features are
When to use AutoML: classification, regression, forecasting, computer vision, and NLP
Use automated ML when you want Azure Machine Learning to train and tune a model for you by using the target metric you specify. Automated ML democratizes the machine learning model development process and empowers its users, regardless of their data science expertise, to identify an end-to-end machine learning pipeline for any problem.
ML professionals and developers across industries can use automated ML to:
Implement ML solutions without extensive programming knowledge
Apply data science best practices
Provide agile problem-solving
Classification is a type of supervised learning in which models learn to use training data and apply those learnings to new data. Azure Machine Learning offers featurizations specifically for these tasks, such as deep neural network text featurizers for classification. For more information about featurization options, see
. You can also find the list of algorithms supported by AutoML at
The main goal of classification models is to predict which categories new data fall into based on learnings from its training data. Common classification examples include fraud detection, handwriting recognition, and object detection.
See an example of classification and automated machine learning in this Python notebook:
Similar to classification, regression tasks are also a common supervised learning task. Azure Machine Learning offers featurization specific to regression problems. Learn more about
. You can also find the list of algorithms supported by AutoML at
Different from classification where predicted output values are categorical, regression models predict numerical output values based on independent predictors. In regression, the objective is to help establish the relationship among those independent predictor variables by estimating how one variable impacts the others. For example, the model might predict automobile price based on features like gas mileage and safety rating.
See an example of regression and automated machine learning for predictions in these Python notebooks:
Building forecasts is an integral part of any business, whether it's revenue, inventory, sales, or customer demand. Use automated ML to combine techniques and approaches and get a recommended, high-quality time-series forecast. For a list of algorithms supported by AutoML, see
An automated time-series experiment treats the problem as a multivariate regression problem. Past time-series values are "pivoted" to become more dimensions for the regressor together with other predictors. This approach, unlike classical time-series methods, has an advantage of naturally incorporating multiple contextual variables and their relationship to one another during training. Automated ML learns a single, but often internally branched, model for all items in the dataset and prediction horizons. More data is thus available to estimate model parameters and it becomes possible to generalize to unseen series.
Advanced forecasting configuration includes:
Holiday detection and featurization
Time-series and DNN learners (Auto-ARIMA, Prophet, ForecastTCN)
Support for many models through grouping
Rolling-origin cross validation
Rolling window aggregate features
For an example of forecasting and automated machine learning, see this Python notebook:
Support for computer vision tasks enables you to easily generate models trained on image data for scenarios like image classification and object detection.
With this capability, you can:
Seamlessly integrate with the
Azure Machine Learning data labeling
Use labeled data for generating image models.
Optimize model performance by specifying the model algorithm and tuning the hyperparameters.
Download or deploy the resulting model as a web service in Azure Machine Learning.
Operationalize at scale, leveraging Azure Machine Learning
You can author AutoML models for vision tasks by using the Azure Machine Learning Python SDK. You can access the resulting experimentation jobs, models, and outputs from the Azure Machine Learning studio UI.
set up AutoML training for computer vision models
http://cs231n.stanford.edu/slides/2021/lecture_15.pdf
Automated ML for images supports the following computer vision tasks:
Multi-class image classification
Tasks where an image is classified with only a single label from a set of classes - for example, each image is classified as either an image of a 'cat' or a 'dog' or a 'duck'.
Multi-label image classification
Tasks where an image could have one or more labels from a set of labels - for example, an image could be labeled with both 'cat' and 'dog'.
Tasks to identify objects in an image and locate each object with a bounding box, for example, locate all dogs and cats in an image and draw a bounding box around each.
Tasks to identify objects in an image at the pixel level, drawing a polygon around each object in the image.
Natural language processing: NLP
Support for natural language processing (NLP) tasks in automated ML enables you to easily generate models trained on text data for text classification and named entity recognition scenarios. You can author automated ML trained NLP models through the Azure Machine Learning Python SDK. You can access the resulting experimentation jobs, models, and outputs from the Azure Machine Learning studio UI.
The NLP capability supports:
End-to-end deep neural network NLP training with the latest pre-trained BERT models
Azure Machine Learning data labeling
Use labeled data for generating NLP models
Multilingual support with 104 languages
Distributed training with Horovod
set up AutoML training for NLP models
Training, validation, and test data
With automated ML, you provide the
to train ML models, and you can specify what type of model validation to perform. Automated ML performs model validation as part of training. That is, automated ML uses
to tune model hyperparameters based on the applied algorithm to find the combination that best fits the training data. However, the same validation data is used for each iteration of tuning, which introduces model evaluation bias since the model continues to improve and fit to the validation data.
To help confirm that such bias isn't applied to the final recommended model, automated ML supports the use of
to evaluate the final model that automated ML recommends at the end of your experiment. When you provide test data as part of your AutoML experiment configuration, this recommended model is tested by default at the end of your experiment (preview).
Testing your models with a test dataset to evaluate generated models is a preview feature. This capability is an
preview feature, and might change at any time.
configure AutoML experiments to use test data (preview) with the SDK
Azure Machine Learning studio
Feature engineering uses domain knowledge of the data to create features that help ML algorithms learn better. In Azure Machine Learning, scaling and normalization techniques help with feature engineering. Collectively, these techniques and feature engineering are referred to as
For automated machine learning experiments, featurization happens automatically, but you can also customize it based on your data.
Learn more about what featurization is included (SDK v1)
prevent over-fitting and imbalanced data
Automated machine learning featurization steps, such as feature normalization, handling missing data,
and converting text to numeric, become part of the underlying model. When you use the model for
predictions, the same featurization steps applied during training are automatically applied to
You can also use other feature engineering techniques, such as encoding and transforms.
Azure Machine Learning studio: Enable
View additional configuration
Python SDK: Specify featurization in your
Automated machine learning supports ensemble models, which are enabled by default. Ensemble learning improves machine learning results and predictive performance by combining multiple models instead of using single models. The ensemble iterations appear as the final iterations of your job. Automated machine learning uses both voting and stacking ensemble methods for combining models:
: Predicts based on the weighted average of predicted class probabilities (for classification tasks) or predicted regression targets (for regression tasks).
: Combines heterogeneous models and trains a meta-model based on the output from the individual models. The current default meta-models are LogisticRegression for classification tasks and ElasticNet for regression/forecasting tasks.
Caruana ensemble selection algorithm
with sorted ensemble initialization decides which models to use within the ensemble. At a high level, this algorithm initializes the ensemble with up to five models with the best individual scores, and verifies that these models are within 5% threshold of the best score to avoid a poor initial ensemble. Then for each ensemble iteration, a new model is added to the existing ensemble and the resulting score is calculated. If a new model improves the existing ensemble score, the ensemble updates to include the new model.
for changing default ensemble settings in automated machine learning.
With Azure Machine Learning, you can use automated ML to build a Python model and have it converted to the ONNX format. Once the models are in the ONNX format, you can run them on various platforms and devices. Learn more about
accelerating ML models with ONNX
See how to convert to ONNX format
in this Jupyter notebook example
algorithms are supported in ONNX
The ONNX runtime also supports C#, so you can use the model built automatically in your C# apps without any need for recoding or any of the network latencies that REST endpoints introduce. Learn more about
using an AutoML ONNX model in a .NET application with ML.NET
inferencing ONNX models with the ONNX runtime C# API
Use the following resources to get up and running with AutoML.
Tutorials and how-to articles
Tutorials are end-to-end introductory examples of AutoML scenarios.
For a code first experience
Tutorial: Train an object detection model with AutoML and Python
For a low or no-code experience
Tutorial: Train a classification model with no-code AutoML in Azure Machine Learning studio
How-to articles provide more detail about what functionality automated ML offers. For example,
Configure the settings for automatic training experiments
Without code in the Azure Machine Learning studio
train computer vision models with Python
view the generated code from your automated ML models (SDK v1)
Review detailed code examples and use cases in the
GitHub notebook repository for automated machine learning samples
Deepen your expertise of SDK design patterns and class specifications with the
AutoML Job class reference documentation
Automated machine learning capabilities are also available in other Microsoft solutions, such as
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?