Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
In this overview, you learn about the benefits and capabilities of the text to speech feature of the Speech service, which is part of Foundry Tools.
Text to speech enables your applications, tools, or devices to convert text into human like synthesized speech. The text to speech capability is also known as speech synthesis. Use human like standard voices out of the box, or create a custom voice that's unique to your product or brand. For a full list of supported voices, languages, and locales, see
Language and voice support for the Speech service
The Speech service provides standard (neural) voices and custom voice options:
: High-quality neural voices available out of the box in 100+ languages and locales
: Create unique brand voices with professional voice fine-tuning or personal voice options
For a complete list of available voices and languages, see
Language and voice support
For more comprehensive tutorials and examples:
- Complete tutorial with multiple languages
- Full SDK reference and samples
To convert text to speech with a no-code approach, try the
Neural text to speech features
Text to speech uses deep neural networks to make computer voices nearly indistinguishable from human recordings. With clear articulation, neural text to speech reduces listening fatigue during AI interactions.
Highly natural out-of-the-box voices. Create an Azure subscription and Speech resource, and then use the
and select standard voices to get started. Check the
and determine the right voice for your business needs.
Easy-to-use self-service for creating a natural brand voice, with limited access for responsible use. Create an Azure subscription and Microsoft Foundry resource and then
. After you're granted access, go to the
professional voice fine-tuning documentation
Real-time speech synthesis
to convert text to speech by using
Asynchronous synthesis of long audio
to asynchronously synthesize text to speech files longer than 10 minutes (for example, audio books or lectures). Unlike synthesis performed via the Speech SDK or Speech to text REST API, responses aren't returned in real-time. The expectation is that requests are sent asynchronously, responses are polled for, and synthesized audio is downloaded when the service makes it available.
: Azure Speech in Foundry Tools uses deep neural networks to overcome the limits of traditional speech synthesis regarding stress and intonation in spoken language. Prosody prediction and voice synthesis happen simultaneously, which results in more fluid and natural-sounding outputs. Each standard voice model is available at 24 kHz and high-fidelity 48 kHz. You can use neural voices to:
Make interactions with chatbots and voice assistants more natural and engaging.
Convert digital texts such as e-books into audiobooks.
Enhance in-car navigation systems.
For a full list of standard Azure Speech in Foundry Tools neural voices, see
Language and voice support for the Speech service
Improve text to speech output with SSML
: Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML) is an XML-based markup language used to customize text to speech outputs. With SSML, you can adjust pitch, add pauses, improve pronunciation, change speaking rate, adjust volume, and attribute multiple voices to a single document.
You can use SSML to define your own lexicons or switch to different speaking styles. With the
, you can also adjust the speaking languages via SSML. To improve the voice output for your scenario, see
Improve synthesis with Speech Synthesis Markup Language
Speech synthesis with the Audio Content Creation tool
are the key poses in observed speech, including the position of the lips, jaw, and tongue in producing a particular phoneme. Visemes have a strong correlation with voices and phonemes.
By using viseme events in Speech SDK, you can generate facial animation data. This data can be used to animate faces in lip-reading communication, education, entertainment, and customer service. Viseme is currently supported only for the
In addition to Azure Speech neural (non HD) voices, you can also use
Azure Speech high definition (HD) voices
Azure OpenAI neural (HD and non HD) voices
. The HD voices provide a higher quality for more versatile scenarios.
Some voices don't support all
Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML)
tags. This includes neural text to speech HD voices, personal voices, and embedded voices.
For Azure Speech high definition (HD) voices, check the SSML support
For personal voice, you can find the SSML support
For embedded voices, check the SSML support
Sample code for text to speech is available on GitHub. These samples cover text to speech conversion in most popular programming languages:
Text to speech samples (SDK)
Text to speech samples (REST)
In addition to standard voices, you can create custom voices that are unique to your product or brand. Custom voice is an umbrella term that includes professional voice fine-tuning and personal voice. All it takes to get started is a handful of audio files and the associated transcriptions. For more information, see the
professional voice fine-tuning documentation
When you use the text to speech feature, billing is based on the total number of characters in each successfully processed request. This count includes all characters/letters, numbers, spaces, and punctuation; regardless of whether audio output is produced. Charges apply even if speech is not generated due to a mismatch between the selected voice language and the input text. Here's a list of what's billable:
Text passed to the text to speech feature in the SSML body of the request
All markup within the text field of the request body in the SSML format, except for
Letters, punctuation, spaces, tabs, markup, and all white-space characters
Every code point defined in Unicode
For detailed information, see
Each Chinese character is counted as two characters for billing, including kanji used in Japanese, hanja used in Korean, or hanzi used in other languages.
Model training and hosting time for custom voice
Custom voice training and hosting are both calculated by hour and billed per second. For the billing unit price, see
Professional voice fine-tuning time is measured by "compute hour" (a unit to measure machine running time). Typically, when training a voice model, two computing tasks are running in parallel. So, the calculated compute hours are longer than the actual training time. For professional voice fine-tuning, it usually takes 20 to 40 compute hours to train a single-style voice, and around 90 compute hours to train a multi-style voice. The professional voice fine-tuning time is billed with a cap of 96 compute hours. So in the case that a voice model is trained in 98 compute hours, you'll only be charged with 96 compute hours.
Custom voice endpoint hosting is measured by the actual time (hour). The hosting time (hours) for each endpoint is calculated at 00:00 UTC every day for the previous 24 hours. For example, if the endpoint has been active for 24 hours on day one, it's billed for 24 hours at 00:00 UTC the second day. If the endpoint is newly created or suspended during the day, it's billed for its accumulated running time until 00:00 UTC the second day. If the endpoint isn't currently hosted, it isn't billed. In addition to the daily calculation at 00:00 UTC each day, the billing is also triggered immediately when an endpoint is deleted or suspended. For example, for an endpoint created at 08:00 UTC on December 1, the hosting hour will be calculated to 16 hours at 00:00 UTC on December 2 and 24 hours at 00:00 UTC on December 3. If the user suspends hosting the endpoint at 16:30 UTC on December 3, the duration (16.5 hours) from 00:00 to 16:30 UTC on December 3 will be calculated for billing.
When you use the personal voice feature, you're billed for both profile storage and synthesis.
: After a personal voice profile is created, it will be billed until it's removed from the system. The billing unit is per voice per day. If voice storage lasts for less than 24 hours, it's still billed as one full day.
: Billed per character. For details on billable characters, see the above
When you use the text-to-speech avatar feature, charges are billed per second based on the length of video output. However, for the real-time avatar, charges are billed per second based on the time when the avatar is active, regardless of whether it's speaking or remaining silent. To optimize costs for real-time avatar usage, refer to the "Use Local Video for Idle" tips provided in the
Custom text to speech avatar training is time is measured by "compute hour" (machine running time) and billed per second. Training duration varies depending on how much data you use. It normally takes 20-40 compute hours on average to train a custom avatar. The avatar training time is billed with a cap of 96 compute hours. So in the case that an avatar model is trained in 98 compute hours, you're only charged for 96 compute hours.
Avatar hosting is billed per second per endpoint. You can suspend your endpoint to save costs. If you want to suspend your endpoint, you can delete it directly. To use it again, redeploy the endpoint.
Monitor Azure text to speech metrics
Monitoring key metrics associated with text to speech services is crucial for managing resource usage and controlling costs. This section guides you on how to find usage information in the Azure portal and provide detailed definitions of the key metrics. For more information on Azure monitor metrics, see
Azure Monitor Metrics overview
How to find usage information in the Azure portal
To effectively manage your Azure resources, it's essential to access and review usage information regularly. Here's how to find the usage information:
and sign in with your Azure account.
and select your resource you wish to monitor.
You can filter data by resource type, metric type, time range, and other parameters to create custom views that align with your monitoring needs. Additionally, you can save the metric view to dashboards by selecting
for easy access to frequently used metrics.
To manage usage more effectively, set up alerts by navigating to the
from the left-hand menu. Alerts can notify you when your usage reaches specific thresholds, helping to prevent unexpected costs.
Here's a table summarizing the key metrics for Azure text to speech.
Tracks the number of characters converted into speech, including standard voice and custom voice. For details on billable characters, see
Measures the total duration of video synthesized, including batch avatar synthesis, real-time avatar synthesis, and custom avatar synthesis.
Avatar Model Hosting Seconds
Tracks the total time in seconds that your custom avatar model is hosted.
Tracks the total time in hours that your custom voice model is hosted.
Voice Model Training Minutes
Measures the total time in minutes for training your custom voice model.
An AI system includes not only the technology, but also the people who use it, the people who are affected by it, and the environment in which it's deployed. Read the transparency notes to learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems.
Transparency note and use cases for custom voice
Characteristics and limitations for using custom voice
Limited access to custom voice
Guidelines for responsible deployment of synthetic voice technology
Disclosure for voice talent
Disclosure design guidelines
Disclosure design patterns
Code of Conduct for Text to speech integrations
Data, privacy, and security for custom voice
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?