Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Welcome to the Azure Site Recovery service! This article provides a quick service overview.
As an organization, you need to adopt a business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) strategy that keeps your data safe, and your apps and workloads online, when planned and unplanned outages occur.
To make Site Recovery resilient to various potential outages and problems, including transient faults, availability zone outages, and region outages, see
Reliability in Azure Site Recovery
Azure Recovery Services contributes to your BCDR strategy:
: Site Recovery helps ensure business continuity by keeping business apps and workloads running during outages. Site Recovery
workloads running on physical and virtual machines (VMs) from a primary site to a secondary location. When an outage occurs at your primary site, you fail over to a secondary location, and access apps from there. After the primary location is running again, you can fail back to it.
service keeps your data safe and recoverable.
Azure Site Recovery has an option of
, enabling you to configure disaster recovery for Azure VMs having data churn up to 100 MB/s. This helps you to enable disaster recovery for more IO intensive workloads.
Site Recovery can manage replication for:
Azure VMs replicating between Azure regions
Replication from Azure Extended Zones to the region
On-premises VMs, Azure Stack VMs, and physical servers
The Azure Site Recovery functionality for Extended Zones is in preview state.
What does Site Recovery provide?
Using Site Recovery, you can set up and manage replication, failover, and failback from a single location in the Azure portal.
You can replicate VMware VMs to Azure using the improved Azure Site Recovery replication appliance that offers better security and resilience than the configuration server. For more information, see
Disaster recovery of VMware VMs
On-premises VM replication
You can replicate on-premises VMs and physical servers to Azure. Replication to Azure eliminates the cost and complexity of maintaining a secondary datacenter.
Replicate any workload running on supported Azure VMs, on-premises Hyper-V and VMware VMs, and Windows/Linux physical servers.
Site Recovery orchestrates replication without intercepting application data. When you replicate to Azure, data is stored in Azure storage, with the resilience that provides. When failover occurs, Azure VMs are created based on the replicated data. This also applies to Extended Zones to Azure region Azure Site Recovery scenario.
Keep recovery time objectives (RTO) and recovery point objectives (RPO) within organizational limits. Site Recovery provides continuous replication for Azure VMs and VMware VMs, and replication frequency as low as 30 seconds for Hyper-V. You can reduce RTO further by integrating with
Keep apps consistent over failover
You can replicate using recovery points with application-consistent snapshots. These snapshots capture disk data, all data in memory, and all transactions in process.
Testing without disruption
You can easily run disaster recovery drills, without affecting ongoing replication.
You can run planned failovers for expected outages with zero-data loss. Or, unplanned failovers with minimal data loss, depending on replication frequency, for unexpected disasters. You can easily fail back to your primary site when it's available again.
Using recovery plans, you can customize and sequence the failover and recovery of multi-tier applications running on multiple VMs. You group machines together in a recovery plan, and optionally add scripts and manual actions. Recovery plans can be integrated with Azure Automation runbooks.
: This functionality is currently supported for Region-to-Region replication and will be available on Azure Extended Zones soon.
Site Recovery integrates with other BCDR technologies. For example, you can use Site Recovery to protect the SQL Server backend of corporate workloads, with native support for SQL Server Always On, to manage the failover of availability groups.
Azure automation integration
A rich Azure Automation library provides production-ready, application-specific scripts that can be downloaded and integrated with Site Recovery.
Site Recovery integrates with Azure for application network management. For example, to reserve IP addresses, configure load-balancers, and use Azure Traffic Manager for efficient network switchovers.
You can protect, monitor, failover, and re-protect your workloads running on Windows Server Failover Clusters (WSFC) on Azure VMs using shared disk.
You can use shared disks for your critical applications such as SQL FCI, SAP ASCS, Scale-out File Servers, etc., while ensuring business continuity and disaster recovery with Azure Site Recovery.
Azure Local integration (preview)
Azure Site Recovery is integrated with Azure Local environments. You can replicate and recover Hyper-V virtual machine workloads running on Azure Local clusters and enable seamless disaster recovery for your hybrid infrastructure to Azure.
1. One Azure region to another.
2. One Azure Extended zone to the Azure region it's connected to.
Replicate on-premises VMware VMs, Hyper-V VMs, physical servers (Windows and Linux), Azure Stack VMs to Azure.
Replicate AWS Windows instances to Azure.
Replicate on-premises VMware VMs, Hyper-V VMs managed by System Center VMM, and physical servers to a secondary site.
Review the replication requirements for
on-premises VMware VMs and physical servers
You can replicate any workload running on a machine that's supported for replication. Learn more about the app-specific
Azure VM replication between regions
Disaster recovery for VMs on Azure Extended Zones
Cloud Adoption Framework for Multiregion Business Continuity
Well-Architected Framework for VMware Solution during disasters
Azure Architected Center for Azure Local stretched clusters for disaster recovery
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?