Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Use the Azure portal and Azure Resource Manager to manage resource groups
to manage Azure resource groups.
This article provides steps about how to delete personal data from the device or service and can be used to support your obligations under the GDPR. For general information about GDPR, see the
GDPR section of the Microsoft Trust Center
GDPR section of the Service Trust portal
A resource group is a container that holds related resources for an Azure solution. The resource group can include all the resources for the solution or only those resources that you want to manage as a group. You decide how to allocate resources to resource groups based on what makes the most sense for your organization. Generally, add resources sharing the same lifecycle to the same resource group so you can easily deploy, update, and delete them as a group.
The Azure portal uses the resource group scope to create views that span across multiple resources. For example:
provides metrics information (CPU, resources) to users.
shows the history of ARM template or Bicep deployments targeted to that resource group (which includes portal deployments).
provides information related to the policies enforced on the resource group.
Diagnostics settings blade
provides errors and warnings to review.
The resource group stores metadata about the resources. When you specify a location for the resource group, you're specifying where that metadata is stored. For compliance reasons, you might need to ensure that your data is stored in a particular region. Resources inside a resource group can be in different regions.
Enter the following values:
: Select your Azure subscription.
: Enter a new resource group name.
: Select an Azure location such as
. It takes a few seconds to create a resource group.
To refresh the resource group list, select
from the top menu. To open the newly created resource group, select it from the list. Or, select
(the bell icon) from the top, and then select
to open the newly created resource group.
To list the resource groups, select
To customize the information displayed for the resource groups, configure the filters. The following screenshot shows the other columns that you can add to the display:
Select the resource group you want to open.
Open the resource group you want to delete. See
For more information about how Resource Manager arranges how resources are deleted, see
Azure Resource Manager resource group and resource deletion
Deploy resources to a resource group
After you create a Resource Manager template, use the Azure portal to deploy your Azure resources. For information about creating a template, see
Quickstart: Create and deploy Azure Resource Manager templates by using the Azure portal
. For information about using the portal to deploy a template, see
Deploy resources with Resource Manager templates and Azure portal
Move to another resource group or subscription
You can move resources from one resource group to another. For more information and guidance, see
Move Azure resources to a new resource group or subscription
Locking prevents other users in your organization from accidentally deleting or modifying critical resources like an Azure subscription, resource group, or resource.
Open the resource group that you want to lock. For more information, see
To add a lock to the resource group, select
Lock your resources to protect your infrastructure
Apply tags to resource groups and resources to logically organize your assets. For more information, see
Use tags to organize your Azure resources
Export resource groups to templates
To learn about exporting templates, see
Single and multi-resource export to template - Portal
Manage access to resource groups
Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)
to manage access to resources in Azure. For more information, see
Assign Azure roles using the Azure portal
To learn more about managing Azure resources, see
Manage Azure resources by using the Azure portal
To learn more about Resource Manager, see the
What is Azure Resource Manager?
To learn the Resource Manager template syntax, see
Understand the structure and syntax of Azure Resource Manager templates
To learn how to develop templates, see the step-by-step
Azure Resource Manager documentation tutorials
To view Azure Resource Manager template schemas, see
Define resources with Bicep, ARM templates, and Terraform AzAPI provider
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?