Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)?
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is a managed Kubernetes service for deploying and managing containerized applications. AKS offloads the complexity and operational overhead of managing Kubernetes to Azure. AKS offers two cluster modes:
: A fully managed experience with production-ready defaults. Azure handles node management, scaling, security, monitoring, and upgrades automatically. Recommended for most teams and workloads.
: Full control over cluster configuration and node pool management. Recommended when you have specific infrastructure requirements or existing automation.
This article is intended for platform administrators or developers looking for a scalable, automated, managed Kubernetes solution. If you want to minimize operational overhead and get a production-ready cluster fast,
AKS reduces the complexity and operational overhead of managing Kubernetes by shifting that responsibility to Azure. When you create an AKS cluster, Azure automatically creates and configures a control plane for you at no cost. The Azure platform manages the AKS control plane, which is responsible for the Kubernetes objects and worker nodes that you deploy to run your applications. Azure takes care of critical operations like health monitoring and maintenance, and you only pay for the AKS nodes that run your applications.
and is compliant with SOC, ISO, PCI DSS, and HIPAA. For more information, see the
Microsoft Azure compliance overview
AKS offers two modes for creating and operating clusters. Use the following table to choose the mode that fits your needs:
Developer teams, new workloads, quick onboarding, and production applications
Platform teams that require full infrastructure control
Fully managed - Azure provisions, scales, and upgrades nodes automatically using
You create and manage node pools manually
Managed Prometheus, Container Insights, and Azure Monitor dashboards with Grafana are on by default
Automatic via the stable channel; OS image upgrades run on the NodeImage channel
are preconfigured; nodes are created on demand
Manual scaling by default; cluster autoscaler and KEDA are optional
Financially backed guarantee:
that guarantees 99.9% of qualifying pods ready within five minutes
Standard pricing tier with uptime SLA - included at no extra charge
Free pricing tier by default; Standard or Premium pricing tier is optional
Managed NGINX with Azure DNS and Key Vault integration - preconfigured
Optional; bring your own ingress controller or use the
application routing add-on
when you want Azure to manage infrastructure operations so your team can focus on applications.
when you need custom networking configurations, Windows node pools, specific VM SKUs not yet available in Automatic, or have existing automation built around manual cluster management.
For a full feature-by-feature comparison, see
AKS Automatic and Standard feature comparison
Container solutions in Azure
Azure offers a range of container solutions designed to accommodate various workloads, architectures, and business needs.
Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes
Azure Container Instances (ACI)
Managed Docker container instance
For more information comparing the various solutions, see the following resources:
Comparing the service models of Azure container solutions
Comparing Azure compute service options
For most new workloads, we recommend using
. It comes production-ready with automatic node provisioning, built-in security defaults, preconfigured monitoring, automatic upgrades, and a
that guarantees 99.9% of qualifying pods are ready within five minutes. No additional configuration is required to get these features. For more information, see
The following list describes some common use cases for AKS:
Lift and shift to containers with AKS
: Migrate existing applications to containers and run them in a fully managed Kubernetes environment.
: Simplify the deployment and management of microservices-based applications with streamlined horizontal scaling, self-healing, load balancing, and secret management.
: Efficiently balance speed and security by implementing secure DevOps with Kubernetes.
Bursting from AKS with ACI
: Use virtual nodes to provision pods inside ACI that start in seconds and scale to meet demand.
Machine learning model training with AKS
: Train models using large datasets with familiar tools, such as TensorFlow and Kubeflow.
: Ingest and process real-time data streams with millions of data points collected via sensors, and perform fast analyses and computations to develop insights into complex scenarios.
Using Windows containers on AKS
: Run Windows Server containers on AKS to modernize your Windows applications and infrastructure.
The following table lists key features of AKS. Features marked
are enabled by default on every AKS Automatic cluster and require no extra configuration.
Identity and security management
regulatory compliance controls using Azure Policy
with built-in guardrails and internet security benchmarks.
to limit access to cluster resources.
to set up Kubernetes access based on existing identity and group membership.
- Azure RBAC for Kubernetes authorization,
, a feature in Azure Monitor, to monitor the health and performance of your clusters and containerized applications.
Advanced Container Networking Services
to collect and visualize network traffic data from your clusters.
- Managed Prometheus, Container Insights, and Azure Monitor dashboards with Grafana are on by default.
• Use prebuilt cluster configurations for Kubernetes with
• Autoscale your applications using the
Kubernetes Event-driven Autoscaling (KEDA)
to ready source code and prepare your applications for production.
are enabled and ready to use on every Automatic cluster.
• Connect storage to nodes and pods, upgrade cluster components, and use GPUs.
• Create clusters that run multiple node pools to support mixed operating systems and Windows Server containers.
• Configure automatic scaling using the
confidential computing nodes
to allow containers to run in a hardware-based trusted execution environment.
fully manages node creation and scaling; no manual node pool configuration is required.
• Mount static or dynamic storage volumes for persistent data.
for fully managed, cloud-based volume management and orchestration of block storage. Azure Container Storage integrates with Kubernetes, allowing dynamic and automatic provisioning of persistent volumes.
CSI driver for single pod access and
CSI driver for multiple, concurrent pod access.
for high-performance, high-throughput, and low-latency file shares.
Bring your own Container Network Interface (CNI)
to use a third-party CNI plugin.
• Easily access applications deployed to your clusters using the
application routing add-on with nginx
Azure CNI Overlay powered by Cilium
for high-performance networking, managed NGINX ingress with Azure DNS and Key Vault integration, and a managed NAT gateway for egress are configured by default.
Development tooling integration
Kubernetes extension for Visual Studio Code
• Leverage the features of Istio with the
Istio-based service mesh add-on
Get started with AKS Automatic (recommended)
AKS Automatic is the fastest path to a production-ready cluster with built-in security, monitoring, and autoscaling. Choose a quickstart based on where you're starting from:
Start from a container image
Deploy an AKS Automatic cluster
- get a fully configured cluster in minutes.
Go from source code to Kubernetes with AKS Automatic
- automated deployments generate Kubernetes manifests and CI/CD workflows directly from your repository.
Get started with AKS Standard
Use AKS Standard when you need full control over cluster configuration:
core Kubernetes concepts for AKS
Evaluate application deployment on AKS with our
Resources for all AKS users
Azure Well-Architected Framework for AKS
to learn how to design and operate reliable, secure, efficient, and cost-effective applications on AKS.
Plan your design and operations
for AKS using our reference architectures.
configuration options and recommended best practices for cost optimization
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?