Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
The Domain Name System (DNS) translates (resolves) a service name to an IP address. Azure DNS provides DNS hosting, resolution, and load balancing for your applications by using the Microsoft Azure infrastructure.
Azure DNS supports both internet-facing DNS domains and private DNS zones. It provides the following services:
is a hosting service for DNS domains. By hosting your domains in Azure, you can manage your DNS records by using the same credentials, APIs, tools, and billing as your other Azure services.
is a DNS service for your virtual networks. Azure Private DNS manages and resolves domain names in the virtual network without the need to configure a custom DNS solution.
Azure DNS Private Resolver
is a service that enables you to query Azure DNS private zones from an on-premises environment and vice versa without deploying VM based DNS servers.
is a DNS-based traffic load balancer. This service allows you to distribute traffic to your public facing applications across the global Azure regions.
offers the ability to filter and log DNS queries at the virtual network level. It also includes a Threat Intelligence feed which allows early detection and prevention of security incidents on your Virtual Networks where known malicious domains sourced by
Microsoft's Security Response Center (MSRC)
can be blocked from name resolution.
Azure DNS enables multiple scenarios, including:
Host and resolve public domains
Manage DNS resolution in your virtual networks
Enable autoregistration for VMs
Enable name resolution between Azure and your on-premises resources
Monitor DNS metrics and alerts
Integrate with your other Azure services
Perform Private Link and DNS integration at scale
Load-balance your applications
Link DNS records directly to Traffic Manager profiles
Monitor your application traffic patterns
Secure and view DNS traffic
Azure DNS is one of the services that make up the Network Foundations category in Azure. Other services in this category include
. Each service has its own unique features and use cases. For more information on this service category, see
To learn about Public DNS zones and records, see
DNS zones and records overview
To learn about Private DNS zones, see
What is an Azure Private DNS zone
To learn about private resolver endpoints and rulesets, see
Azure DNS Private Resolver endpoints and rulesets
For frequently asked questions about Azure DNS, see
For frequently asked questions about Azure Private DNS, see
For frequently asked questions about Traffic Manager, see
Traffic Manager routing methods
Learn module: Introduction to Azure DNS
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?