Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Azure Translator in Foundry Tools?
Azure Translator in Foundry Tools is a cloud-based neural machine translation service that's part of the
family and can be used with any operating system. Translator powers many Microsoft products and services used by thousands of businesses worldwide for language translation and other language-related operations. In this overview, learn how Translator can enable you to build intelligent, multi-language solutions for your applications across all
Azure Translator features and development options
Translator supports the following features. Use the links in this table to learn more about each feature and browse the API references.
Text translation version 2026-06-06 (GA)
• Azure Translator text translation
introduces our newest cloud-based, multilingual, neural machine translation service.
• Key enhancements include the option to select specified large language models (LLM), adaptive custom translation, and expanded parameters for translation requests.
Execute text translation between supported source and target languages in real time. Create a
Document translation (Asynchronous)
: Translate batch and complex files while preserving the structure and format of the original documents. The batch translation process requires an Azure Blob storage account with containers for your source and translated documents.
Document translation (Synchronous)
: Translate a single document file alone or with a glossary file while preserving the structure and format of the original document. The file translation process doesn't require an Azure Blob storage account. The final response contains the translated document and is returned directly to the calling client.
Adaptive custom translation
Upload 5–10,000 prealigned source–target segment pairs (≤500 chars per pair). The service builds a custom bilingual index in minutes to adapt supported LLMs (for example, GPT‑5.1) via
Adaptive custom translation
Build customized models to translate domain- and industry-specific language, terminology, and style.
Create a dictionary (phrase or sentence)
For detailed information regarding Azure Translator request limits,
Service and request limits
for text and synchronous document translation operations via a no-code interface.
Try the Translator service for free
First, you need a Microsoft account; if you don't have one, you can sign up for free at the
Create a Microsoft account
and follow the steps to create and verify your new account.
Next, you need to  have an Azure account—navigate to the
button, and create a new Azure account using your Microsoft account credentials.
Now, you're ready to get started!
get your access keys and API endpoint
Learn more about the following features:
Adaptive custom translation
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?