Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Azure Speech in Foundry Tools
provides speech to text, text to speech, and other capabilities through a
Microsoft Foundry resource
. You can transcribe speech to text with high accuracy, produce natural-sounding text-to-speech voices, translate spoken audio, and conduct live AI voice conversations.
You can create custom voices, add specific words to your base vocabulary, or build your own models. Run Azure Speech anywhere, in the cloud or at the edge in containers. Enable your applications, tools, and devices for speech by using the
Azure Speech is available for many
Common scenarios for speech include:
: Learn how to synchronize captions with your input audio, apply profanity filters, get partial results, apply customizations, and identify spoken languages for multilingual scenarios.
: Use neural voices to make interactions with chatbots and voice agents more natural and engaging, convert digital texts such as e-books into audiobooks, and enhance in-car navigation systems.
: Transcribe calls in real time or process a batch of calls, redact personal information, and extract insights such as sentiment to help with your call-center use case.
: Provide pronunciation assessment feedback to language learners, support real-time transcription for remote learning conversations, and read aloud teaching materials with neural voices.
: Create natural, humanlike conversational interfaces for applications and experiences. The Voice Live feature provides fast, reliable interaction between a human and an agent implementation.
: Generate high-quality speech-to-speech translation in real time, or automatically generate translated videos in a broad range of languages.
: Create lifelike and high-quality synthetic talking avatar videos for various real-time and batch applications while adhering to responsible AI practices.
Microsoft uses Azure Speech for many scenarios, such as captioning in Microsoft Teams, dictation in Microsoft Office 365, and Read Aloud in the Microsoft Edge browser.
The following sections summarize Azure Speech features and provide links for more information.
to convert audio into text. Choose from:
for pre-recorded audio files.
for processing large volumes of audio asynchronously.
The base model might not be sufficient if the audio contains ambient noise or includes industry and domain-specific jargon. In these cases, you can create and train
with acoustic, language, and pronunciation data. Custom speech models are private and can offer a competitive advantage.
, you can convert input text into humanlike synthesized speech. Use neural voices, which are humanlike voices powered by deep neural networks. Use
Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML)
to fine-tune the pitch, pronunciation, speaking rate, volume, and more.
: You can choose among highly natural out-of-the-box voices. Check the standard voice samples in the
and determine the right voice for your business needs.
that's recognizable and unique to your brand or product. Custom voices are private and can offer a competitive advantage. Check the
converts text into a digital video of a photorealistic human speaking with a natural-sounding voice. The video can be synthesized asynchronously or in real time. You can build applications integrated with text-to-speech avatar through an API, or use text-to-speech avatar in Foundry to create video content without coding. The feature empowers you to deliver lifelike and high-quality synthetic talking avatar videos for various applications while adhering to responsible AI practices.
You can choose from a range of standard voices for the avatar. The language support for text-to-speech avatar is the same as the language support for text to speech.
enables real-time, multilingual translation of speech to your applications, tools, and devices. Use this feature for speech-to-speech and speech-to-text translation.
Take advantage of a large language model (LLM)-enhanced speech model in
. This feature currently supports the following tasks:
: Convert pre-recorded audio into text.
: Convert pre-recorded audio into text in a specified target language.
The LLM-enhanced speech model delivers improved quality, deep contextual understanding, multilingual support, and prompt-tuning capabilities. LLM speech shares the same ultra-fast inference performance as fast transcription. Use cases include generating captions and subtitles from audio files, summarizing meeting notes, assisting call center agents, transcribing voicemails, and more.
helps you identify languages spoken in audio by comparing them against a list of
. Use language identification by itself, with speech-to-text recognition, or with speech translation.
evaluates speech pronunciation and gives speakers feedback on the accuracy and fluency of spoken audio. By using pronunciation assessment, language learners can practice, get instant feedback, and improve their pronunciation so that they can speak and present with confidence.
You can deploy Azure Speech features in the cloud or on-premises.
, you can bring the service closer to your data for compliance, security, or other operational reasons.
Azure Speech deployment in sovereign clouds is available for some government entities and their partners. For example, the Azure Government cloud is available to US government entities and their partners. The Azure operated by 21Vianet cloud is available to organizations that have a business presence in China. For more information, see
Speech service in sovereign clouds
Integration of Azure Speech in your application
is a set of UI-based tools for building and integrating features from Azure Speech in your applications. You create projects in Speech Studio by using a no-code approach. You can then reference those assets in your applications by using:
. This SDK exposes many of the Azure Speech capabilities that you can use to develop speech-enabled applications. The Speech SDK is available in many programming languages and across all platforms.
. With this command-line tool, you can use Azure Speech without having to write any code. Most features in the Speech SDK are available in the Speech CLI, and some advanced features and customizations are simplified in the Speech CLI.
. In some cases, you can't or shouldn't use the Speech SDK. In those cases, you can use REST APIs to access Azure Speech. For example, use REST APIs for
Sample code for Azure Speech is available on GitHub. These samples cover common scenarios like reading audio from a file or stream, continuous and single-shot recognition, and working with custom models. Use these links to view SDK and REST samples:
Speech-to-text, text-to-speech, and speech translation samples (SDK)
Batch transcription samples (REST)
Text-to-speech samples (REST)
An AI system includes not only the technology, but also the people who use it, the people who are affected by it, and the environment where it's deployed. Use the following resources to learn about responsible AI use and deployment in your systems.
Transparency note and use cases
Characteristics and limitations
Integration and responsible use
Data, privacy, and security
Transparency note and use cases
Characteristics and limitations
Transparency note and use cases
Characteristics and limitations
Responsible deployment of synthetic speech
Disclosure of voice talent
Disclosure of design guidelines
Disclosure of design patterns
Data, privacy, and security
The following quickstarts are available for Azure Speech features. Each quickstart teaches you basic design patterns in many popular programming languages and has you running code in less than 10 minutes.
Speech translation quickstart
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?