Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Azure OpenAI On Your Data (classic)
. This article isn't available for the new Foundry portal.
Learn more about the new portal
Links in this article might open content in the new Microsoft Foundry documentation instead of the Foundry (classic) documentation you're viewing now.
Azure OpenAI On Your Data is deprecated and approaching retirement. The service will be retired on October 14, 2026
Microsoft has stopped onboarding new models to Azure OpenAI On Your Data. This feature only supports the following models:
GPT‑4o (versions 2024‑05‑13, 2024‑08‑06, and 2024‑11‑20)
GPT-4o-mini (version 2024-07-18)
We recommend that you migrate Azure OpenAI On Your Data workloads to
to retrieve content and generate grounded answers from your data. To get started, see
Connect a Foundry IQ knowledge base
Use this article to learn about Azure OpenAI On Your Data, which makes it easier for developers to connect, ingest and ground their enterprise data to create personalized copilots (preview) rapidly. It enhances user comprehension, expedites task completion, improves operational efficiency, and aids decision-making.
What is Azure OpenAI On Your Data
Azure OpenAI On Your Data enables you to run advanced AI models such as GPT-35-Turbo and GPT-4 on your own enterprise data without needing to train or fine-tune models. You can chat on top of and analyze your data with greater accuracy. You can specify sources to support the responses based on the latest information available in your designated data sources. You can access Azure OpenAI On Your Data using a REST API, via the SDK or the web-based interface in the
. You can also create a web app that connects to your data to enable an enhanced chat solution or deploy it directly as a copilot in the Copilot Studio (preview).
Developing with Azure OpenAI On Your Data
Typically, the development process you'd use with Azure OpenAI On Your Data is:
: Upload files using either
or the ingestion API. This enables your data to be cracked, chunked and embedded into an Azure AI Search instance that can be used by Azure OpenAI models. If you have an existing
, you can also connect it directly.
: After trying Azure OpenAI On Your Data, begin developing your application using the available REST API and SDKs, which are available in several languages. It will create prompts and search intents to pass to the Azure OpenAI service.
: After your application is deployed in your preferred environment, it will send prompts to Azure OpenAI, which will perform several steps before returning a response:
: The service will determine the intent of the user's prompt to determine a proper response.
: The service retrieves relevant chunks of available data from the connected data source by querying it. For example by using a semantic or vector search.
such as strictness and number of documents to retrieve are utilized to influence the retrieval.
: Search results from the retrieval step are improved by ranking and filtering data to refine relevance.
: The resulting data is submitted along with other information like the system message to the Large Language Model (LLM) and the response is sent back to the application.
and start asking questions and chatting on your data.
Azure Role-based access controls (Azure RBAC) for adding data sources
To use Azure OpenAI On Your Data fully, you need to set one or more Azure RBAC roles. See
Azure OpenAI On Your Data configuration
Data formats and file types
Azure OpenAI On Your Data supports the following file types:
, and there are some caveats about document structure and how it might affect the quality of responses from the model:
If you're converting data from an unsupported format into a supported format, optimize the quality of the model response by ensuring the conversion:
Doesn't lead to significant data loss.
Doesn't add unexpected noise to your data.
If your files have special formatting, such as tables and columns, or bullet points, prepare your data with the data preparation script available on
For documents and datasets with long text, you should use the available
. The script chunks data so that the model's responses are more accurate. This script also supports scanned PDF files and images.
You need to connect to a data source to upload your data. When you want to use your data to chat with an Azure OpenAI model, your data is chunked in a search index so that relevant data can be found based on user queries.
Your data should be unstructured text for best results. If you have non-textual semi-structured or structured data consider converting it to text. If your files have special formatting, such as tables and columns, or bullet points, prepare your data with the data preparation script available on
Integrated Vector Database in vCore-based Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB
natively supports integration with Azure OpenAI On Your Data.
For some data sources such as uploading files from your local machine (preview) or data contained in a blob storage account (preview), Azure AI Search is used. When you choose the following data sources, your data is ingested into an Azure AI Search index.
Data ingested through Azure AI Search
Use an existing Azure AI Search index with Azure OpenAI On Your Data.
Upload files from your local machine to be stored in an Azure Blob Storage database, and ingested into Azure AI Search.
Web content from the URLs is stored in Azure Blob Storage.
Azure Blob Storage (preview)
Upload files from Azure Blob Storage to be ingested into an Azure AI Search index.
Vector Database in Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB
Azure Blob Storage (preview)
You might want to consider using an Azure AI Search index when you either want to:
Customize the index creation process.
Reuse an index created before by ingesting data from other data sources.
To use an existing index, it must have at least one searchable field.
You cannot have complex fields in your search index.
Azure OpenAI On Your Data provides the following search types you can use when you add your data source.
To enable vector search, you need an existing embedding model deployed in your Azure OpenAI resource. Select your embedding deployment when connecting your data, then select one of the vector search types under
. If you're using Azure AI Search as a data source, make sure you have a vector column in the index.
If you're using your own index, you can customize the
when you add your data source to define the fields that will get mapped when answering questions. To customize field mapping, select
page when adding your data source.
is subject to additional pricing. You need to choose
to enable semantic search or vector search. See
To help improve the quality of the information retrieval and model response, we recommend enabling
for the following data source languages: English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, Germany, Chinese(Zh), Japanese, Korean, Russian, and Arabic.
Performs fast and flexible query parsing and matching over searchable fields, using terms or phrases in any supported language, with or without operators.
Improves the precision and relevance of search results by using a reranker (with AI models) to understand the semantic meaning of query terms and documents returned by the initial search ranker
on your Azure OpenAI account from calling the embedding model.
Enables you to find documents that are similar to a given query input based on the vector embeddings of the content.
A hybrid of vector search and keyword search
on your Azure OpenAI account from calling the embedding model.
Performs similarity search over vector fields using vector embeddings, while also supporting flexible query parsing and full text search over alphanumeric fields using term queries.
hybrid (vector + keyword) + semantic
A hybrid of vector search, semantic search, and keyword search.
on your Azure OpenAI account from calling the embedding model, and additional pricing for
Uses vector embeddings, language understanding, and flexible query parsing to create rich search experiences and generative AI apps that can handle complex and diverse information retrieval scenarios.
Azure OpenAI On Your Data has intelligent search enabled for your data. Semantic search is enabled by default if you have both semantic search and keyword search. If you have embedding models, intelligent search defaults to hybrid + semantic search.
Document-level access control
Document-level access control is supported when you select Azure AI Search as your data source.
Azure OpenAI On Your Data lets you restrict the documents that can be used in responses for different users with Azure AI Search
. When you enable document level access, the search results returned from Azure AI Search and used to generate a response are trimmed based on user Microsoft Entra group membership. You can only enable document-level access on existing Azure AI Search indexes. See
Azure OpenAI On Your Data network and access configuration
If you're using your own index, you'll be prompted in the
to define which fields you want to map for answering questions when you add your data source. You can provide multiple fields for
, and should include all fields that have text pertaining to your use case.
In this example, the fields mapped to
provide information to the model to answer questions.
is also used to title citation text. The field mapped to
generates the citation names in the response.
Mapping these fields correctly helps ensure the model has better response and citation quality. You can additionally configure it
If you want to implement additional value-based criteria for query execution, you can set up a
How data is ingested into Azure AI search
As of September 2024, the ingestion APIs switched to
alter the existing API contracts. Integrated vectorization, a new offering of Azure AI Search, utilizes prebuilt skills for chunking and embedding the input data. The Azure OpenAI On Your Data ingestion service no longer employs custom skills. Following the migration to integrated vectorization, the ingestion process has undergone some modifications and as a result only the following assets are created:
, if an hourly or daily schedule is specified, otherwise, the indexer is cleaned-up at the end of the ingestion process.
The chunks container is no longer available, as this functionality is now inherently managed by Azure AI Search.
You need to select how you want to authenticate the connection from Azure OpenAI, Azure AI Search, and Azure blob storage. You can choose a
System assigned managed identity
as the authentication type, the system will automatically populate the API key for you to connect with your Azure AI Search, Azure OpenAI, and Azure Blob Storage resources. By selecting
System assigned managed identity
, the authentication will be based on the
System assigned managed identity
is selected by default for security.
button, it will automatically validate your setup to use the selected authentication method. If you encounter an error, see the
Once you have fixed the setup, select
again to validate and proceed. API users can also
with assigned managed identity and API keys.
vCore-based Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB
Only vCore-based Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB is supported.
The search type is limited to
Integrated Vector Database in Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB
with an Azure OpenAI embedding model.
This implementation works best on unstructured and spatial data.
Use the script provided on
When you add your vCore-based Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB data source, you can specify data fields to properly map your data for retrieval.
Content data (required): One or more provided fields to be used to ground the model on your data. For multiple fields, separate the values with commas, with no spaces.
File name/title/URL: Used to display more information when a document is referenced in the chat.
Vector fields (required): Select the field in your database that contains the vectors.
You might want to use Azure Blob Storage as a data source if you want to connect to existing Azure Blob Storage and use files stored in your containers.
Schedule automatic index refreshes
Automatic index refreshing is supported for Azure Blob Storage only.
To keep your Azure AI Search index up-to-date with your latest data, you can schedule an automatic index refresh rather than manually updating it every time your data is updated. Automatic index refresh is only available when you choose
as the data source. To enable an automatic index refresh:
and choose the refresh cadence you would like to apply.
After the data ingestion is set to a cadence other than once, Azure AI Search indexers will be created with a schedule equivalent to
0.5 * the cadence specified
. This means that at the specified cadence, the indexers will pull, reprocess, and index the documents that were added or modified from the storage container. This process ensures that the updated data gets preprocessed and indexed in the final index at the desired cadence automatically. To update your data, you only need to upload the additional documents from the Azure portal. From the portal, select
. Select the name of the original container, then
. The index will pick up the files automatically after the scheduled refresh period. The intermediate assets created in the Azure AI Search resource won't be cleaned up after ingestion to allow for future runs. These assets are:
To modify the schedule, you can use the
Open your search resource page in the Azure portal
Perform the following steps on the two indexers that have your index name as a prefix.
Select the indexer to open it. Then select the
Update the schedule to the desired cadence from "Schedule" or specify a custom cadence from "Interval (minutes)"
How data is ingested into Azure AI search
As of September 2024, the ingestion APIs switched to
alter the existing API contracts. Integrated vectorization, a new offering of Azure AI Search, utilizes prebuilt skills for chunking and embedding the input data. The Azure OpenAI On Your Data ingestion service no longer employs custom skills. Following the migration to integrated vectorization, the ingestion process has undergone some modifications and as a result only the following assets are created:
, if an hourly or daily schedule is specified, otherwise, the indexer is cleaned-up at the end of the ingestion process.
The chunks container is no longer available, as this functionality is now inherently managed by Azure AI Search.
You need to select how you want to authenticate the connection from Azure OpenAI, Azure AI Search, and Azure blob storage. You can choose a
System assigned managed identity
as the authentication type, the system will automatically populate the API key for you to connect with your Azure AI Search, Azure OpenAI, and Azure Blob Storage resources. By selecting
System assigned managed identity
, the authentication will be based on the
System assigned managed identity
is selected by default for security.
button, it will automatically validate your setup to use the selected authentication method. If you encounter an error, see the
Once you have fixed the setup, select
again to validate and proceed. API users can also
with assigned managed identity and API keys.
, you can upload files from your machine to try Azure OpenAI On Your Data. You also have the option to create a new Azure Blob Storage account and Azure AI Search resource. The service then stores the files to an Azure storage container and performs ingestion from the container. You can use the
article to learn how to use this data source option.
How data is ingested into Azure AI search
As of September 2024, the ingestion APIs switched to
alter the existing API contracts. Integrated vectorization, a new offering of Azure AI Search, utilizes prebuilt skills for chunking and embedding the input data. The Azure OpenAI On Your Data ingestion service no longer employs custom skills. Following the migration to integrated vectorization, the ingestion process has undergone some modifications and as a result only the following assets are created:
, if an hourly or daily schedule is specified, otherwise, the indexer is cleaned-up at the end of the ingestion process.
The chunks container is no longer available, as this functionality is now inherently managed by Azure AI Search.
You need to select how you want to authenticate the connection from Azure OpenAI, Azure AI Search, and Azure blob storage. You can choose a
System assigned managed identity
as the authentication type, the system will automatically populate the API key for you to connect with your Azure AI Search, Azure OpenAI, and Azure Blob Storage resources. By selecting
System assigned managed identity
, the authentication will be based on the
System assigned managed identity
is selected by default for security.
button, it will automatically validate your setup to use the selected authentication method. If you encounter an error, see the
Once you have fixed the setup, select
again to validate and proceed. API users can also
with assigned managed identity and API keys.
You can paste URLs and the service will store the webpage content, using it when generating responses from the model. The content in URLs/web addresses that you use need to have the following characteristics to be properly ingested:
Using your data with Azure OpenAI in Foundry Models - Azure OpenAI | Microsoft Learn
. You can't add a URL/Web address with access control, such as ones with a password.
The size of content in each URL is smaller than 5 MB.
The website can be downloaded as one of the
Only one layer of nested links is supported. Only up to 20 links, on the web page will be fetched.
Once you have added the URL/web address for data ingestion, the web pages from your URL are fetched and saved to Azure Blob Storage with a container name:
. Each URL will be saved into a different container within the account. Then the files are indexed into an Azure AI Search index, which is used for retrieval when you're chatting with the model.
How data is ingested into Azure AI search
As of September 2024, the ingestion APIs switched to
alter the existing API contracts. Integrated vectorization, a new offering of Azure AI Search, utilizes prebuilt skills for chunking and embedding the input data. The Azure OpenAI On Your Data ingestion service no longer employs custom skills. Following the migration to integrated vectorization, the ingestion process has undergone some modifications and as a result only the following assets are created:
, if an hourly or daily schedule is specified, otherwise, the indexer is cleaned-up at the end of the ingestion process.
The chunks container is no longer available, as this functionality is now inherently managed by Azure AI Search.
You need to select how you want to authenticate the connection from Azure OpenAI, Azure AI Search, and Azure blob storage. You can choose a
System assigned managed identity
as the authentication type, the system will automatically populate the API key for you to connect with your Azure AI Search, Azure OpenAI, and Azure Blob Storage resources. By selecting
System assigned managed identity
, the authentication will be based on the
System assigned managed identity
is selected by default for security.
button, it will automatically validate your setup to use the selected authentication method. If you encounter an error, see the
Once you have fixed the setup, select
again to validate and proceed. API users can also
with assigned managed identity and API keys.
Elasticsearch vector database
An embedding model. You can:
Use an existing Azure OpenAI
Bring your own embedding model hosted on Elasticsearch.
Prepare your data using the python notebook available on
Using the Elasticsearch data source is a preview feature which is subject to the Limited Access Service terms in the
. You must fill out and submit a
to request access to the Elasticsearch data source. The form requests information about your company and the scenario for which you plan to use the Elasticsearch data source. After you submit the form, the Azure OpenAI team will review it and email you with a decision within 10 business days.
Connect Elasticsearch to Azure OpenAI On Your Data
and get your connection information.
and encoded API key to connect with your Elasticsearch database. Then, click
Select the index you want to connect with.
(optional) use a custom field mapping.
customize the field mapping
when you add your data source to define the fields that will get mapped when answering questions, or use the default values.
. Azure OpenAI On Your Data provides the following search types you can use when you add your data source.
Continue through the screens that appear and select
Azure OpenAI On Your Data provides the following search types you can use when you add your data source.
To enable vector search, you need an existing embedding model deployed in your Azure OpenAI resource or hosted on Elasticsearch. Select your embedding deployment when connecting your data, then select one of the vector search types under
Performs fast and flexible query parsing and matching over searchable fields, using terms or phrases in any supported language, with or without operators.
on your Azure OpenAI account from calling the embedding model.
Enables you to find documents that are similar to a given query input based on the vector embeddings of the content.
when you add your data source to define the fields that will get mapped when answering questions. To customize field mapping, select
page when adding your data source. You can provide multiple fields for
, and should include all fields that have text pertaining to your use case.
Mapping these fields correctly helps ensure the model has better response and citation quality. You can additionally configure this
Use Elasticsearch as a data source via API
Along with using Elasticsearch databases in
, you can also use your Elasticsearch database using the
You can connect your MongoDB Atlas vector index with Azure OpenAI On Your Data for inferencing. You can use it through the
Azure OpenAI ada002 embedding model
To achieve good retrieval quality, make sure your vector index is created with Azure OpenAI ada002 embedding model.
We recommend using one of the following models for MongoDB Atlas
Only public network access is supported. Please make sure the database allows public access
If you want to create a new vector search index with your documents, you can use the
available script on GitHub
to prepare your data for use with Azure OpenAI On Your Data.
Connection to MongoDB account
To add your data source, you first need to create a connection to MongoDB Atlas. This connection includes information such as authentication (username and password). Enter the endpoint of your MongoDB Atlas connection string using the following format:
mongodb+srv://{user_name}:{password}@{endpoint}/?appName={application_name}
for more information about connection string methods.
Once you have created a connection or chosen an existing connection, you can enter the information to connect to a specific vector index within this connected account. You need to input the name of your database, collection and vector index. Make sure you have entered the information correctly to successfully build the connection.
To use MongoDB Atlas, you'll need an Azure OpenAI ada002 embedding model. This model will be created for you if you don't already have one, which will incur
When you add your MongoDB Atlas data source, you can specify data fields to properly map your data for retrieval.
Content data (required): This is the main text content of each document. For multiple fields, separate the values with commas, with no spaces.
Vector field (required): The field name in your MongoDB Atlas search index that contains the vectors.
File name/title/URL: Used to display more information when a document is referenced in the chat.
Deploy to a copilot (preview), Teams app (preview), or web app
After you connect Azure OpenAI to your data, you can deploy it using the
This gives you multiple options for deploying your solution.
You can deploy to a copilot in
, enabling you to bring conversational experiences to various channels such as: Microsoft Teams, websites, Dynamics 365, and other
Azure Bot Service channels
. The tenant used in the Azure OpenAI and Copilot Studio (preview) should be the same. For more information, see
Use a connection to Azure OpenAI On Your Data
Deploying to a copilot in Copilot Studio (preview) is only available in US regions.
A Teams app lets you bring conversational experience to your users in Teams to improve operational efficiency and democratize access of information. This Teams app is configured to users within your Azure account tenant and personal chat (non-group chat) scenarios.
installed. This is a VS Code extension that creates a project scaffolding for your app.
(version 16 or 18) installed. For more information, see
Node.js version compatibility table for project type
Microsoft 365 developer account
(using this link to get a test account:
in your account (instructions
Azure command-line interface (CLI)
installed. This is a cross-platform command-line tool to connect to Azure and execute administrative commands on Azure resources. For more information on setting up environment variables, see the
Your Azure account has been assigned
Cognitive Services OpenAI user
Cognitive Services OpenAI Contributor
role of the Azure OpenAI resource you're using, allowing your account to make Azure OpenAI API calls. For more information, see
Azure OpenAI On Your data configuration
Add role assignment to an Azure OpenAI resource
for instructions on setting this role in the Azure portal.
You can deploy to a standalone Teams app directly from
After you've added your data to the chat model, select
Enter the name of your Teams app and download the resulting .zip file.
Extract the .zip file and open the folder in Visual Studio Code.
in the data connection step, manually copy and paste your Azure AI Search key into the
src\prompts\chat\config.json
file. Your Azure AI Search Key can be found in
Playground by selecting the
button with the key located under Azure Search Resource Key. If you chose
System assigned managed identity
, you can skip this step. Learn more about different data connection options in the
Open the Visual Studio Code terminal and log into Azure CLI, selecting the account that you assigned
Cognitive Service OpenAI User
command in the terminal to log in.
To debug your app, press the
from the left pane. Then select your debugging environment from the dropdown list. A webpage opens where you can chat with your custom copilot.
The citation experience is available in
After you've tested your copilot, you can provision, deploy, and publish your Teams app by selecting the
on the left pane in Visual Studio Code. Run the separate provision, deploy, and publish stages in the
section. You might be asked to sign in to your Microsoft 365 account where you have permissions to upload custom apps and your Azure Account.
Provision your app: (detailed instructions in
Cognitive Service OpenAI User
User Assigned Managed Identity
resource of your custom copilot.
Go to the Azure portal and select the newly created
User Assigned Managed Identity
resource for your custom copilot.
. Specify the following parameters:
Subscription: the subscription of your Azure OpenAI resource
Resource group of your Azure OpenAI resource
Cognitive Service OpenAI user
Deploy your app to Azure by following the instructions in
Publish your app to Teams by following the instructions in
Your Teams app is intended for use within the same tenant of your Azure account used during setup, as it is securely configured by default for single-tenant usage. Using this app with a Teams account not associated with the Azure tenant used during setup will result in an error.
The README file in your Teams app has additional details and tips. Also, see
Tutorial - Build Custom Copilot using Teams
Deploying to a standalone web app lets you and your users to interact with chat models through a graphical user interface. See
Use the Azure OpenAI web app
Configure access and networking for Azure OpenAI On Your Data
You can use Azure OpenAI On Your Data and protect data and resources with Microsoft Entra ID role-based access control, virtual networks, and private endpoints. You can also restrict the documents that can be used in responses for different users with Azure AI Search security filters. See
Azure OpenAI On Your Data access and network configuration
Use the following sections to learn how to improve the quality of responses given by the model.
When your data is ingested into to Azure AI Search, You can modify the following additional settings in either the studio or
Azure OpenAI On Your Data processes your documents by splitting them into chunks before ingesting them. The chunk size is the maximum size in terms of the number of tokens of any chunk in the search index. Chunk size and the number of retrieved documents together control how much information (tokens) is included in the prompt sent to the model. In general, the chunk size multiplied by the number of retrieved documents is the total number of tokens sent to the model.
Setting chunk size for your use case
The default chunk size is 1,024 tokens. However, given the uniqueness of your data, you might find a different chunk size (such as 256, 512, or 1,536 tokens) more effective.
Adjusting the chunk size can enhance your chatbot's performance. While finding the optimal chunk size requires some trial and error, start by considering the nature of your dataset. A smaller chunk size is generally better for datasets with direct facts and less context, while a larger chunk size might be beneficial for more contextual information, though it could affect retrieval performance.
A small chunk size like 256 produces more granular chunks. This size also means the model will utilize fewer tokens to generate its output (unless the number of retrieved documents is very high), potentially costing less. Smaller chunks also mean the model doesn't have to process and interpret long sections of text, reducing noise and distraction. This granularity and focus however pose a potential problem. Important information might not be among the top retrieved chunks, especially if the number of retrieved documents is set to a low value like 3.
Keep in mind that altering the chunk size requires your documents to be re-ingested, so it's useful to first adjust
like strictness and the number of retrieved documents. Consider changing the chunk size if you're still not getting the desired results:
If you are encountering a high number of responses such as "I don't know" for questions with answers that should be in your documents, consider reducing the chunk size to 256 or 512 to improve granularity.
If the chatbot is providing some correct details but missing others, which becomes apparent in the citations, increasing the chunk size to 1,536 might help capture more contextual information.
You can modify the following additional settings in the
. You don't need to reingest your data when you update these parameters.
Limit responses to your data
This flag configures the chatbot's approach to handling queries unrelated to the data source or when search documents are insufficient for a complete answer. When this setting is disabled, the model supplements its responses with its own knowledge in addition to your documents. When this setting is enabled, the model attempts to only rely on your documents for responses. This is the
parameter in the API, and set to true by default.
This parameter is an integer that can be set to 3, 5, 10, or 20, and controls the number of document chunks provided to the large language model for formulating the final response. By default, this is set to 5. The search process can be noisy and sometimes, due to chunking, relevant information might be spread across multiple chunks in the search index. Selecting a top-K number, like 5, ensures that the model can extract relevant information, despite the inherent limitations of search and chunking. However, increasing the number too high can potentially distract the model. Additionally, the maximum number of documents that can be effectively used depends on the version of the model, as each has a different context size and capacity for handling documents. If you find that responses are missing important context, try increasing this parameter. This is the
parameter in the API, and is 5 by default.
Determines the system's aggressiveness in filtering search documents based on their similarity scores. The system queries Azure Search or other document stores, then decides which documents to provide to large language models like ChatGPT. Filtering out irrelevant documents can significantly enhance the performance of the end-to-end chatbot. Some documents are excluded from the top-K results if they have low similarity scores before forwarding them to the model. This is controlled by an integer value ranging from 1 to 5. Setting this value to 1 means that the system will minimally filter documents based on search similarity to the user query. Conversely, a setting of 5 indicates that the system will aggressively filter out documents, applying a very high similarity threshold. If you find that the chatbot omits relevant information, lower the filter's strictness (set the value closer to 1) to include more documents. Conversely, if irrelevant documents distract the responses, increase the threshold (set the value closer to 5). This is the
parameter in the API, and set to 3 by default.
It's possible for the model to return
"TYPE":"UNCITED_REFERENCE"
in the API for documents that are retrieved from the data source, but not included in the citation. This can be useful for debugging, and you can control this behavior by modifying the
runtime parameters described above.
You can define a system message to steer the model's reply when using Azure OpenAI On Your Data. This message allows you to customize your replies on top of the retrieval augmented generation (RAG) pattern that Azure OpenAI On Your Data uses. The system message is used in addition to an internal base prompt to provide the experience. To support this, we truncate the system message after a specific
to ensure the model can answer questions using your data. If you are defining extra behavior on top of the default experience, ensure that your system prompt is detailed and explains the exact expected customization.
Once you select add your dataset, you can use the
You can define a role that you want your assistant. For example, if you are building a support bot, you can add
"You are an expert incident support assistant that helps users solve new issues."
Define the type of data being retrieved
You can also add the nature of data you are providing to assistant.
Define the topic or scope of your dataset, like "financial report," "academic paper," or "incident report." For example, for technical support you might add
"You answer queries using information from similar incidents in the retrieved documents."
If your data has certain characteristics, you can add these details to the system message. For example, if your documents are in Japanese, you can add
"You retrieve Japanese documents and you should read them carefully in Japanese and answer in Japanese."
If your documents include structured data like tables from a financial report, you can also add this fact into the system prompt. For example, if your data has tables, you might add
"You are given data in form of tables pertaining to financial results and you should read the table line by line to perform calculations to answer user questions."
You can also change the model's output by defining a system message. For example, if you want to ensure that the assistant answers are in French, you can add a prompt like
"You are an AI assistant that helps users who understand French find information. The user questions can be in English or French. Please read the retrieved documents carefully and answer them in French. Please translate the knowledge from documents to French to ensure all answers are in French."
Reaffirm critical behavior
Azure OpenAI On Your Data works by sending instructions to a large language model in the form of prompts to answer user queries using your data. If there is a certain behavior that is critical to the application, you can repeat the behavior in system message to increase its accuracy. For example, to guide the model to only answer from documents, you can add "
Please answer using retrieved documents only, and without using your knowledge. Please generate citations to retrieved documents for every claim in your answer. If the user question cannot be answered using retrieved documents, please explain the reasoning behind why documents are relevant to user queries. In any case, don't answer using your own knowledge."
The system message is used to modify how GPT assistant responds to a user question based on retrieved documentation. It doesn't affect the retrieval process. If you'd like to provide instructions for the retrieval process, it is better to include them in the questions.
The system message is only guidance. The model might not adhere to every instruction specified because it has been primed with certain behaviors such as objectivity, and avoiding controversial statements. Unexpected behavior might occur if the system message contradicts with these behaviors.
Limit responses to your data
This option encourages the model to respond using your data only, and is selected by default. If you unselect this option, the model might more readily apply its internal knowledge to respond. Determine the correct selection based on your use case and scenario.
Interacting with the model
Use the following practices for best results when chatting with the model.
Before starting a new conversation (or asking a question that isn't related to the previous ones), clear the chat history.
Getting different responses for the same question between the first conversational turn and subsequent turns can be expected because the conversation history changes the current state of the model. If you receive incorrect answers, report it as a quality bug.
If you aren't satisfied with the model response for a specific question, try either making the question more specific or more generic to see how the model responds, and reframe your question accordingly.
Chain-of-thought prompting
has been shown to be effective in getting the model to produce desired outputs for complex questions/tasks.
Avoid asking long questions and break them down into multiple questions if possible. The GPT models have limits on the number of tokens they can accept. Token limits are counted toward: the user question, the system message, the retrieved search documents (chunks), internal prompts, the conversation history (if any), and the response. If the question exceeds the token limit, it will be truncated.
Currently, keyword search and semantic search in Azure OpenAI On Your Data supports queries are in the same language as the data in the index. For example, if your data is in Japanese, then input queries also need to be in Japanese. For cross-lingual document retrieval, we recommend building the index with
To help improve the quality of the information retrieval and model response, we recommend enabling
for the following languages: English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, Germany, Chinese(Zh), Japanese, Korean, Russian, Arabic
We recommend using a system message to inform the model that your data is in another language. For example:
You are an AI assistant designed to help users extract information from retrieved Japanese documents. Please scrutinize the Japanese documents carefully before formulating a response. The user's query will be in Japanese, and you must response also in Japanese."
If you have documents in multiple languages, we recommend building a new index for each language and connecting them separately to Azure OpenAI.
You can send a streaming request using the
parameter, allowing data to be sent and received incrementally, without waiting for the entire API response. This can improve performance and user experience, especially for large or dynamic data.
"type": "AzureCognitiveSearch",
"endpoint": "'$AZURE_AI_SEARCH_ENDPOINT'",
"key": "'$AZURE_AI_SEARCH_API_KEY'",
"indexName": "'$AZURE_AI_SEARCH_INDEX'"
"content": "What are the differences between Azure Machine Learning and Foundry Tools?"
Conversation history for better results
When you chat with a model, providing a history of the chat will help the model return higher quality results. You don't need to include the
property of the assistant messages in your API requests for better response quality. See
the API reference documentation
Some Azure OpenAI models allow you to define
tools and tool_choice parameters
to enable function calling. You can set up function calling through
are in the request, the following policy is applied.
, the tools are ignored, and only the data sources are used to generate the answer.
is not specified, or specified as
or an object, the data sources are ignored, and the response will contain the selected functions name and the arguments, if any. Even if the model decides no function is selected, the data sources are still ignored.
If the policy above doesn't meet your need, please consider other options, for example:
Token usage estimation for Azure OpenAI On Your Data
Azure OpenAI On Your Data Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is a service that leverages both a search service (such as Azure AI Search) and generation (Azure OpenAI models) to let users get answers for their questions based on provided data.
As part of this RAG pipeline, there are three steps at a high-level:
Reformulate the user query into a list of search intents. This is done by making a call to the model with a prompt that includes instructions, the user question, and conversation history. Let's call this an
For each intent, multiple document chunks are retrieved from the search service. After filtering out irrelevant chunks based on the user-specified threshold of strictness and reranking/aggregating the chunks based on internal logic, the user-specified number of document chunks are chosen.
These document chunks, along with the user question, conversation history, role information, and instructions are sent to the model to generate the final model response. Let's call this the
In total, there are two calls made to the model:
For processing the intent: The token estimate for the
includes those for the user question, conversation history, and the instructions sent to the model for intent generation.
For generating the response: The token estimate for the
includes those for the user question, conversation history, the retrieved list of document chunks, role information, and the instructions sent to it for generation.
The model generated output tokens (both intents and response) need to be taken into account for total token estimation. Summing up all the four columns below gives the average total tokens used for generating a response.
Generation prompt token count
The above numbers are based on testing on a data set with:
10 average tokens per question
4 conversational turns per conversation on average
Number of retrieved documents
Limit responses to ingested data?
These estimates will vary based on the values set for the above parameters. For example, if the number of retrieved documents is set to 10 and strictness is set to 1, the token count will go up. If returned responses aren't limited to the ingested data, there are fewer instructions given to the model and the number of tokens will go down.
The estimates also depend on the nature of the documents and questions being asked. For example, if the questions are open-ended, the responses are likely to be longer. Similarly, a longer system message would contribute to a longer prompt that consumes more tokens, and if the conversation history is long, the prompt will be longer.
Max tokens for system message
The table above shows the maximum number of tokens that can be used for the
. To see the maximum tokens for the model response, see the
. Additionally, the following also consume tokens:
The meta prompt: if you limit responses from the model to the grounding data content (
in the API), the maximum number of tokens higher. Otherwise (for example if
) the maximum is lower. This number is variable depending on the token length of the user question and conversation history. This estimate includes the base prompt and the query rewriting prompts for retrieval.
User question and history: Variable but capped at 2,000 tokens.
Retrieved documents (chunks): The number of tokens used by the retrieved document chunks depends on multiple factors. The upper bound for this is the number of retrieved document chunks multiplied by the chunk size. It will, however, be truncated based on the tokens available tokens for the specific model being used after counting the rest of fields.
20% of the available tokens are reserved for the model response. The remaining 80% of available tokens include the meta prompt, the user question and conversation history, and the system message. The remaining token budget is used by the retrieved document chunks.
In order to compute the number of tokens consumed by your input (such as your question, the system message/role information), use the following code sample.
class TokenEstimator(object):
GPT2_TOKENIZER = tiktoken.get_encoding("gpt2")
def estimate_tokens(self, text: str) -> int:
return len(self.GPT2_TOKENIZER.encode(text))
token_output = TokenEstimator.estimate_tokens(input_text)
To troubleshoot failed operations, always look out for errors or warnings specified either in the API response or
. Here are some of the common errors and warnings:
An index with the name X in service Y couldn't be created. Index quota has been exceeded for this service. You must either delete unused indexes first, add a delay between index creation requests, or upgrade the service for higher limits.
Standard indexer quota of X has been exceeded for this service. You currently have X standard indexers. You must either delete unused indexers first, change the indexer 'executionMode', or upgrade the service for higher limits.
Upgrade to a higher pricing tier or delete unused assets.
Preprocessing Timeout Issues
Couldn't execute skill because the Web API request failed
Couldn't execute skill because Web API skill response is invalid
Break down the input documents into smaller documents and try again.
This request isn't authorized to perform this operation
This means the storage account isn't accessible with the given credentials. In this case, please review the storage account credentials passed to the API and ensure the storage account isn't hidden behind a private endpoint (if a private endpoint isn't configured for this resource).
503 errors when sending queries with Azure AI Search
Each user message can translate to multiple search queries, all of which get sent to the search resource in parallel. This can produce throttling behavior when the number of search replicas and partitions is low. The maximum number of queries per second that a single partition and single replica can support might not be sufficient. In this case, consider increasing your replicas and partitions, or adding sleep/retry logic in your application. See the
Azure AI Search documentation
Regional availability and model support
Azure OpenAI On Your Data is deprecated and approaching retirement. The service will be retired on October 14, 2026
Microsoft has stopped onboarding new models to Azure OpenAI On Your Data. This feature only supports the following models:
GPT‑4o (versions 2024‑05‑13, 2024‑08‑06, and 2024‑11‑20)
GPT-4o-mini (version 2024-07-18)
We recommend that you migrate Azure OpenAI On Your Data workloads to
to retrieve content and generate grounded answers from your data. To get started, see
Connect a Foundry IQ knowledge base
For regional availability, see the
Region availability for Foundry Models sold by Azure
Get started using your data with Azure OpenAI
Azure OpenAI On Your Data network and access configuration
Introduction to prompt engineering
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?