Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
MLflow and Azure Machine Learning
Azure CLI ml extension v2 (current)
Python SDK azure-ai-ml v2 (current)
This article describes the capabilities of
, an open-source framework that manages the complete machine learning lifecycle. MLflow uses a consistent set of tools to train and serve models on different platforms. Use MLflow whether your experiments run locally, on a remote compute target, a virtual machine, or an Azure Machine Learning compute instance.
Azure Machine Learning workspaces are MLflow-compatible, so you use an Azure Machine Learning workspace the same way you use an MLflow server. This compatibility offers these advantages:
Azure Machine Learning doesn't host MLflow server instances, but uses the MLflow APIs directly.
Use an Azure Machine Learning workspace as your tracking server for any MLflow code, whether or not it runs in Azure Machine Learning. Just configure MLflow to point to the workspace where tracking happens.
Run any training routine that uses MLflow in Azure Machine Learning without making changes.
Unlike the Azure Machine Learning SDK v1, the Azure Machine Learning v2 SDK doesn't include logging functionality. Use MLflow logging to keep your training routines cloud-agnostic, portable, and independent of Azure Machine Learning.
When you work with jobs, Azure Machine Learning automatically tracks information about experiments, like code, environment, and input and output data. But models, parameters, and metrics are specific to each scenario, so model builders need to set up their tracking.
The saved tracking metadata varies by experiment and can include:
Environment details like OS version and Python packages
Evaluation visualizations like confusion matrices and importance plots
Evaluation results, including some evaluation predictions
Benefits of tracking experiments
Whether you train models with jobs in Azure Machine Learning or interactively in notebooks, experiment tracking helps you:
Organize all your machine learning experiments in one place. Then search and filter experiments, and drill down to see details about previous experiments.
Compare experiments, analyze results, and debug model training.
Reproduce or rerun experiments to validate results.
Collaborate more easily, because you see what other teammates are doing, share experiment results, and access experiment data programmatically.
Azure Machine Learning workspaces are MLflow-compatible. This compatibility means you use MLflow to track runs, metrics, parameters, and artifacts in workspaces without changing your training routines or adding any cloud-specific syntax. To learn how to use MLflow for tracking experiments and runs in Azure Machine Learning workspaces, see
Track experiments and models with MLflow
Azure Machine Learning uses MLflow tracking to log metrics and store artifacts for your experiments. When you're connected to Azure Machine Learning, all MLflow tracking appears in the workspace you use.
To learn how to enable logging to monitor real-time run metrics with MLflow, see
Log metrics, parameters, and files with MLflow
query and compare experiments and runs with MLflow
MLflow in Azure Machine Learning provides a way to centralize tracking. Connect MLflow to Azure Machine Learning workspaces even when you work locally or in a different cloud. The Azure Machine Learning workspace provides a centralized, secure, and scalable location to store training metrics and models.
MLflow in Azure Machine Learning lets you:
Track machine learning experiments and models running locally or in the cloud
Track Azure Databricks machine learning experiments
Track Azure Synapse Analytics machine learning experiments
MLflow support in R has these limitations:
MLflow tracking is limited to tracking experiment metrics, parameters, and models on Azure Machine Learning jobs.
Interactive training on RStudio, Posit (formerly RStudio Workbench), or Jupyter notebooks with R kernels isn't supported.
Model management and registration aren't supported. Use the Azure Machine Learning CLI or Azure Machine Learning studio for model registration and management.
For examples of using the MLflow tracking client with R models in Azure Machine Learning, see
Train R models using the Azure Machine Learning CLI (v2)
Tracking with MLflow in Java
MLflow support in Java has these limitations:
MLflow tracking is limited to tracking experiment metrics and parameters on Azure Machine Learning jobs.
Artifacts and models can't be tracked. Instead, use the
folder in jobs to save models or artifacts that you want to capture.
For a Java example that uses the MLflow tracking client with the Azure Machine Learning tracking server, see
Example notebooks for MLflow tracking
Training and tracking an XGBoost classifier with MLflow
shows how to use MLflow to track experiments, log models, and combine multiple flavors into pipelines.
Training and tracking an XGBoost classifier with MLflow using service principal authentication
shows how to use MLflow to track experiments from a compute that's running outside Azure Machine Learning. The example shows how to authenticate against Azure Machine Learning services by using a service principal.
Hyperparameter optimization using HyperOpt and nested runs in MLflow
shows how to use child runs to do hyperparameter optimization for models by using the popular HyperOpt library. The example shows how to transfer metrics, parameters, and artifacts from child runs to parent runs.
Logging models with MLflow
shows how to use the concept of models instead of artifacts with MLflow. The example also shows how to construct custom models.
Manage runs and experiments with MLflow
shows how to use MLflow to query experiments, runs, metrics, parameters, and artifacts from Azure Machine Learning.
Model registration with MLflow
Azure Machine Learning supports MLflow for model management. If you're familiar with the MLflow client, you can use it to manage the entire model lifecycle. To learn more about managing models with the MLflow API in Azure Machine Learning, see
Manage model registries in Azure Machine Learning with MLflow
Example notebook for MLflow model registration
Model management with MLflow
shows how to manage models in registries.
Model deployment with MLflow
Deploy MLflow models to Azure Machine Learning to get an improved experience. Azure Machine Learning supports deploying MLflow models to both real-time and batch endpoints without specifying an environment or a scoring script.
The MLflow SDK, Azure Machine Learning CLI, Azure Machine Learning SDK for Python, and Azure Machine Learning studio all support MLflow model deployment. For more information about deploying MLflow models to Azure Machine Learning for both real-time and batch inference, see
Guidelines for deploying MLflow models
Example notebooks for MLflow model deployment
Deploy MLflow to online endpoints
shows how to deploy MLflow models to online endpoints using the MLflow SDK.
Progressive rollout of MLflow deployments
shows how to deploy MLflow models to online endpoints using the MLflow SDK with progressive model rollout. The example also shows how to deploy multiple versions of a model to the same endpoint.
Deploy MLflow models to legacy web services
shows how to deploy MLflow models to legacy web services (Azure Container Instances or Azure Kubernetes Service v1) using the MLflow SDK.
Train models in Azure Databricks and deploy them on Azure Machine Learning
shows how to train models in Azure Databricks and deploy them in Azure Machine Learning. The example also covers tracking experiments with the MLflow instance in Azure Databricks.
Training with MLflow Projects (preview)
) in Azure Machine Learning will be fully retired in September 2026.
MLflow is still fully supported
and is still the recommended way to track machine learning workloads in Azure Machine Learning.
As you continue to use MLflow, we recommend that you transition from
files to Azure Machine Learning
, using either the Azure CLI or the Azure Machine Learning SDK for Python (v2). For more information on Azure Machine Learning jobs, see
Track ML experiments and models with MLflow
This feature is currently in public preview. This preview version is provided without a service-level agreement, and we don't recommend it for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities.
Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews
Submit training jobs to Azure Machine Learning by using
. Submit jobs locally with Azure Machine Learning tracking, or migrate your jobs to the cloud by using
Azure Machine Learning compute
Learn how to submit training jobs that use MLflow Projects to Azure Machine Learning workspaces for tracking in
Train with MLflow Projects in Azure Machine Learning (preview)
Example notebooks for MLflow projects
Train with MLflow Projects on local compute
Train with MLflow Projects on Azure Machine Learning compute
MLflow vs Azure Machine Learning client tools capabilities
The following table shows machine learning lifecycle operations you can do with the MLflow SDK and Azure Machine Learning client tools.
Azure Machine Learning CLI/SDK v2
Azure Machine Learning studio
Track and log metrics, parameters, and models
Retrieve metrics, parameters, and models
You can download only artifacts and models.
You can use MLflow Projects (preview).
Submit training jobs with Azure Machine Learning data assets
Submit training jobs with machine learning pipelines
Manage experiments and runs
Some operations aren't supported.
Deploy MLflow models to Azure Machine Learning (online and batch)
You can't deploy MLflow models for batch inference right now.
Deploy non-MLflow models to Azure Machine Learning
Manage model registries in Azure Machine Learning with MLflow
Deploy and run MLflow models in Spark jobs
Configure MLflow for Azure Machine Learning
Track ML experiments and models with MLflow
Guidelines for deploying MLflow models
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?