Enabling the dependency graph
You can allow users to identify their projects' dependencies by enabling the dependency graph.
Repository owners, organization owners, security managers, and users with the
The dependency graph is a summary of the manifest and lock files stored in a repository and any dependencies that are submitted for the repository using the dependency submission API. For more information, see
When the dependency graph is first enabled, any manifest and lock files for supported ecosystems are parsed immediately. The graph is usually populated within minutes but this may take longer for repositories with many dependencies. Once enabled, the graph is automatically updated with every push to the repository and every push to other repositories in the graph.
Enabling the dependency graph for a repository
Enabling the dependency graph gives GitHub read-only access to the dependency manifest and lock files for a repository.
On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.
Under your repository name, click
. If you cannot see the "Settings" tab, select the
In the "Security" section of the sidebar, click
Read the message about granting GitHub read-only access to the repository data to enable the dependency graph, then next to "Dependency Graph", click
You can disable the dependency graph at any time by clicking
next to "Dependency Graph" on the settings page for "Advanced Security".
Enabling the dependency graph for multiple repositories
You can enable or disable the dependency graph for all repositories owned by your user account, regardless of their visibility. See
Managing security and analysis features
You can also enable the dependency graph for multiple repositories in an organization at the same time. For more information, see
Configuring security features in your organization
You can use the dependency submission API to submit dependencies from the package manager or ecosystem of your choice, even if the ecosystem is not supported by dependency graph for manifest or lock file analysis.
Dependencies submitted to a project using the dependency submission API will show which detector was used for their submission and when they were submitted. For more information on the dependency submission API, see
Using the dependency submission API
For more information on viewing the dependency graph, see
Exploring the dependencies of a repository
Configuring automatic dependency submission for your repository
Viewing insights for dependencies in your organization
Viewing and updating Dependabot alerts
Vulnerable dependency detection