Quickstart for securing your repository
Manage access to your code. Find and fix vulnerable code and dependencies automatically.
Repository owners, organization owners, security managers, and users with the
This guide shows you how to configure security features for a repository.
Your security needs are unique to your repository, so you may not need to enable every feature for your repository. For more information, see
Some features are available for repositories on all plans. Additional features are available to organizations and enterprises that use GitHub Secret Protection, GitHub Code Security, or GitHub Advanced Security. GitHub Advanced Security features are also enabled for all public repositories on GitHub. For more information, see
About GitHub Advanced Security
Managing access to your repository
The first step to securing a repository is to establish who can see and modify your code. For more information, see
Managing your repository's settings and features
From the main page of your repository, click
, then scroll down to the "Danger Zone."
To change who can view your repository, click
. For more information, see
Setting repository visibility
To change who can access your repository and adjust permissions, click
. For more information, see
Managing teams and people with access to your repository
Managing the dependency graph
Repository administrators can enable or disable the dependency graph for repositories. The dependency graph interprets manifest and lock files in a repository to identify dependencies.
From the main page of your repository, click
Next to Dependency graph, click
Enabling the dependency graph
Managing Dependabot alerts
Dependabot alerts are generated when GitHub identifies a dependency in the dependency graph with a vulnerability. You can enable Dependabot alerts for any repository.
Additionally, you can use Dependabot auto-triage rules to manage your alerts at scale, so you can auto-dismiss or snooze alerts, and specify which alerts you want Dependabot to open pull requests for. For information about the different types of auto-triage rules, and whether your repositories are eligible, see
Dependabot auto-triage rules
For an overview of the different features offered by Dependabot and instructions on how to get started, see
Dependabot quickstart guide
Click your profile picture, then click
next to Dependabot alerts.
Managing security and analysis features
Managing dependency review
Dependency review lets you visualize dependency changes in pull requests before they are merged into your repositories. For more information, see
Dependency review is a GitHub Code Security feature. Dependency review is enabled for all repositories with the dependency graph enabled. Organizations that use GitHub Team or GitHub Enterprise Cloud with GitHub Code Security can additionally enable dependency review for private and internal repositories.
To enable dependency review for a repository, ensure that the dependency graph is enabled.
From the main page of your repository, click
To the right of Code Security, click
Under Code Security, check that dependency graph is enabled for the repository.
Managing Dependabot security updates
For any repository that uses Dependabot alerts, you can enable Dependabot security updates to raise pull requests with security updates when vulnerabilities are detected.
From the main page of your repository, click
Next to Dependabot security updates, click
Dependabot security updates
Configuring Dependabot security updates
Managing Dependabot version updates
You can enable Dependabot to automatically raise pull requests to keep your dependencies up-to-date. For more information, see
Dependabot version updates
From the main page of your repository, click
Next to Dependabot version updates, click
Specify the dependencies to update and any associated configuration options, then commit the file to the repository. For more information, see
Configuring Dependabot version updates
Code Security features are available for all public repositories, and for private repositories owned by organizations that are part of a team or an enterprise that uses GitHub Code Security or GitHub Advanced Security.
GitHub Code Security includes code scanning, CodeQL CLI and Copilot Autofix, as well as other features that find and fix vulnerabilities in your codebase.
You can configure code scanning to automatically identify vulnerabilities and errors in the code stored in your repository by using a CodeQL analysis workflow or third-party tool. Depending on the programming languages in your repository, you can configure code scanning with CodeQL using default setup, in which GitHub automatically determines the languages to scan, query suites to run, and events that will trigger a new scan. For more information, see
Configuring default setup for code scanning
From the main page of your repository, click
In the "Security" section of the sidebar, click
If "Code Security" or "GitHub Advanced Security" is not already enabled, click
To the right of "CodeQL analysis", select
In the pop-up window that appears, review the default configuration settings for your repository, then click
Choose whether you want to enable addition features, such as Copilot Autofix or AI-powered security detections.
As an alternative to default setup, you can use advanced setup, which generates a workflow file you can edit to customize your code scanning with CodeQL. For more information, see
Configuring advanced setup for code scanning
Configuring Secret Protection
Secret Protection features are available for all public repositories, and for private repositories owned by organizations that are part of a team or an enterprise that uses GitHub Secret Protection or GitHub Advanced Security.
GitHub Secret Protection includes secret scanning and push protection, as well as other features that help you detect and prevent secret leaks in your repository.
From the main page of your repository, click
If "Secret Protection" or "GitHub Advanced Security" is not already enabled, click
If the option "Secret scanning" is shown, click
Choose whether you want to enable additional features, such as scanning for generic patterns and push protection.
If you are a repository maintainer, it's good practice to specify a security policy for your repository by creating a file named
in the repository. This file instructs users about how to best contact you and collaborate with you when they want to report security vulnerabilities in your repository. You can view the security policy of a repository from the repository’s
From the main page of your repository, click
In the left sidebar, under "Reporting", click
Add information about supported versions of your project and how to report vulnerabilities.
Adding a security policy to your repository
You can view and manage alerts from security features to address dependencies and vulnerabilities in your code. For more information, see
Viewing and updating Dependabot alerts
Managing pull requests for dependency updates
Assessing code scanning alerts for your repository
Manage secret scanning alerts
You can also use GitHub's tools to audit responses to security alerts. For more information, see
If you have a security vulnerability in a public repository, you can create a security advisory to privately discuss and fix the vulnerability. For more information, see
Repository security advisories
Creating a repository security advisory
If you use GitHub Actions, you can use GitHub's security features to increase the security of your workflows. For more information, see