Prevent fraudulent use of your secrets by automatically detecting exposed credentials before they can be exploited.
Phase 2: Evaluate GitHub Secret Protection
When credentials like API keys and passwords are committed to repositories as hardcoded secrets, they become targets for unauthorized access. Secret scanning automatically detects credential leaks so you can secure them before they're exploited.
At any time, you can run a free assessment of your organization's code for leaked secrets.
To generate a report, open the
tab for your organization, display the
How secret scanning protects your code
Secret scanning scans your entire Git history on all branches of your repository for hardcoded credentials, including API keys, passwords, tokens, and other known secret types. This helps you identify secret sprawl, the uncontrolled proliferation of credentials across repositories, before it becomes a security risk. GitHub also periodically rescans repositories when new secret types are added.
GitHub also automatically scans:
Descriptions and comments in issues
Titles, descriptions, and comments, in open and closed
Titles, descriptions, and comments in pull requests
Titles, descriptions, and comments in GitHub Discussions
Secret scanning alerts and remediation
When secret scanning detects a credential leak, GitHub generates an alert on your repository's
tab with details about the exposed credential.
When you receive an alert, rotate the affected credential immediately to prevent unauthorized access. While you can also remove secrets from your Git history, this is time-intensive and often unnecessary if you've already revoked the credential.
GitHub partners with a large variety of service providers to validate detected secrets. When a partner secret is detected, we notify the provider so they can take action, such as revoking the credential. Partner secrets are reported directly to the provider and aren't displayed in your repository alerts. For more information, see
Secret scanning partner program
Beyond the default detection of partner and provider secrets, you can expand and customize secret scanning to fit your needs.
Expand detection to secrets that aren't tied to a specific service provider, such as private keys, connection strings, and generic API keys.
Define your own regular expressions to detect organization-specific secrets that aren't covered by default patterns.
Prioritize remediation by checking whether detected secrets are still active.
Use AI to detect unstructured secrets like passwords, or to generate regular expressions for custom patterns.
Validity checks help you prioritize which secrets to remediate first by verifying whether a detected secret is still active. When you enable validity checks, secret scanning may contact the secret's issuing service to determine if the credential has been revoked.
Validity checks are separate from secret scanning's partner program. While partner secrets are automatically reported to service providers for revocation, validity checks verify the status of secrets you manage in your own alerts. For more information, see
How can I access this feature?
Secret scanning is available for the following repository types:
: Secret scanning runs automatically for free.
Organization-owned private and internal repositories
enabled on GitHub Team or GitHub Enterprise Cloud.
: Available on GitHub Enterprise Cloud with Enterprise Managed Users. Available on GitHub Enterprise Server when the enterprise has
In addition to scanning repositories your enterprise owns, you can enable public monitoring to detect secrets leaked by your enterprise members in public repositories across GitHub. This extends secret scanning beyond the repositories your enterprise owns to follow your members' activity across the platform. See
Public monitoring for secret scanning