Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Microsoft Foundry?
Microsoft Foundry unifies agents, models, and tools under a single management grouping with built-in enterprise-readiness capabilities including tracing, monitoring, evaluations, and customizable enterprise setup configurations. The platform provides streamlined management through unified role-based access control (RBAC), networking, and policies under one Azure resource provider namespace.
Upgrade your Azure OpenAI resource to a Foundry resource
while preserving your endpoint, API keys, and existing state.
Using hub-based projects? Hub-based projects are accessible in the
. New investments are focused on Foundry projects in the new portal.
Build your first agent in minutes, or open the portal to explore models and tools.
Build with models and agents
in the portal or SDK, or deploy
that run your own code. Learn more in
Access more than 1,900 models from Microsoft, OpenAI, Anthropic, Meta, and others. Browse the
Extend agents with built-in tools, memory, and retrieval from the
Foundry brings production capabilities to every project:
Trace, monitor, and evaluate agents and models with built-in dashboards. See
Apply Microsoft Entra identity, role-based access control, content filters, network isolation, and Azure Policy. See the
Manage agents, models, and tools as a single Azure resource with unified access control, networking, and policies.
Foundry consolidates several previous Azure AI services and tools into a unified platform. The following table maps previous concepts to their current equivalents. For detailed guidance on transitioning, see
Navigate from classic to the new experience
Azure AI Studio / Azure AI Foundry
Assistants API (Agents v0.5/v1)
Hub + Azure OpenAI + Azure AI Services
Foundry resource (single, with projects)
against one project endpoint.
Threads, Messages, Runs, Assistants
Conversations, Items, Responses, Agent Versions
What is Foundry Agent Service?
What's new in Microsoft Foundry
Microsoft Foundry portal general availability overview
Upgrade your Azure OpenAI resource to a Foundry resource
Find hub-based projects in the Foundry (classic) portal
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?