Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Guidelines for deploying MLflow models
In this article, you'll learn about the deployment of
models to Azure Machine Learning for both real-time and batch inference, and about different tools you can use to manage the deployments.
When you deploy MLflow models to Azure Machine Learning, unlike with custom model deployment, you don't need to provide a scoring script or an environment. Azure Machine Learning automatically generates the scoring script and environment. This functionality is called
For no-code deployment, Azure Machine Learning:
Ensures that all the package dependencies indicated in the MLflow model are satisfied.
Provides an MLflow base image or curated environment that contains the following items:
Packages required for Azure Machine Learning to perform inference, including
A scoring script to perform inference.
Azure Machine Learning automatically generates environments to run inference on MLflow models. To build the environments, Azure Machine Learning reads the Conda dependencies that are specified in the MLflow model and adds any packages that are required to run the inferencing server. These extra packages vary depending on deployment type.
If Conda dependencies are specified in the MLflow model, it is required to include
azureml-inference-server-http
packages in the dependencies as in the example below.
file shows Conda dependencies specified in an MLflow model.
- azureml-inference-server-http
MLflow automatically detects packages when it logs a model, and it pins the package versions in the model's Conda dependencies. This automatic package detection might not reflect your intentions or requirements. You can alternatively
log models that use a custom signature, environment, or samples
Models that include signatures
MLflow models can include a signature that indicates the expected inputs and their types. When such models are deployed to online or batch endpoints, Azure Machine Learning ensures that the number and types of the data inputs comply with the signature. If the input data can't be parsed as expected, the model invocation fails.
You can inspect an MLflow model signature by opening the MLmodel file. For more information on how signatures work in MLflow, see
The following example MLmodel file highlights the
virtualenv: python_env.yaml
loader_module: mlflow.sklearn
serialization_format: cloudpickle
model_uuid: 3f725f3264314c02808dd99d5e5b2781
run_id: 70f15bab-cf98-48f1-a2ea-9ad2108c28cd
inputs: '[{"name": "age", "type": "double"}, {"name": "sex", "type": "double"},
{"name": "bmi", "type": "double"}, {"name": "bp", "type": "double"}, {"name":
"s1", "type": "double"}, {"name": "s2", "type": "double"}, {"name": "s3", "type":
"double"}, {"name": "s4", "type": "double"}, {"name": "s5", "type": "double"},
{"name": "s6", "type": "double"}]'
outputs: '[{"type": "double"}]'
Signatures in MLflow models are recommended because they provide a convenient way to detect data compatibility problems. For more information about how to log models that have signatures, see
Log models that use a custom signature, environment, or samples
Deployment in the MLflow built-in server vs. deployment in Azure Machine Learning inferencing server
Model developers can use MLflow built-in deployment tools to test models locally. For example, you can run a local instance of a model that's registered in the MLflow server registry by using
. For more information about MLflow built-in deployment tools, see
in the MLflow documentation.
Azure Machine Learning also supports deploying models to both online and batch endpoints. These endpoints run different inferencing technologies that can have different features.
Azure Machine Learning online endpoints, similar to the MLflow built-in server, provide a scalable, synchronous, and lightweight way to run models for inference.
Azure Machine Learning batch endpoints can run asynchronous inference over long-running inferencing processes that can scale to large amounts of data. The MLflow server lacks this capability, although you can achieve a similar capability by using
. To learn more about batch endpoints and MLflow models, see
Use MLflow models in batch deployments
The following table shows the input types supported by the MLflow built-in server and those supported by Azure Machine Learning online endpoints.
Azure Machine Learning online endpoint
JSON-serialized pandas DataFrames in the split orientation
JSON-serialized pandas DataFrames in the records orientation
CSV-serialized pandas DataFrames
Use batch inferencing. For more information, see
Deploy MLflow models to batch endpoints
TensorFlow input as JSON-serialized lists (tensors) and dictionary of lists (named tensors)
TensorFlow input using the TensorFlow Serving API
The following sections focus on MLflow models that are deployed to Azure Machine Learning online endpoints.
Regardless of input type, Azure Machine Learning requires you to provide inputs in a JSON payload in the dictionary key
. This key isn't required when you use the command
to serve models, so payloads can't be used interchangeably for Azure Machine Learning online endpoints and the MLflow built-in server.
The payload structure changed in MLflow 2.0.
The following payload examples show differences between a model deployed in the MLflow built-in server versus the Azure Machine Learning inferencing server.
JSON-serialized pandas DataFrame in the split orientation
"age", "sex", "trestbps", "chol", "fbs", "restecg", "thalach", "exang", "oldpeak", "slope", "ca", "thal"
[1, 1, 145, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2]
This payload uses MLflow server 2.0+.
"age", "sex", "trestbps", "chol", "fbs", "restecg", "thalach", "exang", "oldpeak", "slope", "ca", "thal"
[1, 1, 145, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2]
[1, 1, 0, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2],
[1, 1, 0, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2]
[1, 1, 0, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2],
[1, 1, 145, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2]
[1, 1, 0, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2],
[1, 1, 0, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2]
[1, 1, 0, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2],
[1, 1, 145, 233, 1, 2, 150, 0, 2.3, 3, 0, 2]
[0, 655, 85, 5, 23, 84, 23, 52, 856, 5, 23, 1]
[0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0]
[0, 655, 85, 5, 23, 84, 23, 52, 856, 5, 23, 1]
[0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0]
Inference customization for MLflow models
Scoring scripts customize how to run inferencing for custom models. But for MLflow model deployment, the decision about how to run inferencing is made by the model builder rather than by the deployment engineer. Each model framework can automatically apply specific inference routines.
If you need to change how inference is run for an MLflow model, you can take one of the following actions:
Change how your model is being logged in the training routine.
Customize inference by using a scoring script at deployment time.
Change how your model is logged during training
When you log a model by using either
, the flavor used for the model determines how to run inference and what results to return. MLflow doesn't enforce any specific behavior for how the
function generates results.
In some cases, you might want to do some preprocessing or postprocessing before and after your model runs. Or you might want to change what's returned, for example, probabilities instead of classes. One solution is to implement machine learning pipelines that move from inputs to outputs directly.
are popular ways to implement pipelines, and are sometimes recommended to improve performance. You can also customize how your model does inferencing by
Customize inference by using a scoring script
Although MLflow models don't require a scoring script, you can still provide one to customize inference execution for MLflow models if needed. For more information on how to customize inference, see
Customize MLflow model deployments
Customize model deployment with scoring script
If you choose to specify a scoring script for an MLflow model deployment, you also need to provide an environment for the deployment.
Azure Machine Learning provides the following tools for deploying MLflow models to online and batch endpoints:
Azure Machine Learning CLI v2
Azure Machine Learning SDK for Python
Azure Machine Learning studio
Each tool has different capabilities, particularly for which type of compute it can target. The following table shows the support for different MLflow deployment scenarios.
Azure Machine Learning CLI/SDK or studio
Deploy to managed online endpoints.
Progressive rollout of MLflow models to online endpoints
Deploy MLflow models to online endpoints
Deploy to managed online endpoints with a scoring script.
Customize MLflow model deployments
Deploy to batch endpoints.
Use MLflow models in batch deployments
Deploy to batch endpoints with a scoring script.
Customize model deployment with scoring script
Deploy to web services like Azure Container Instances or Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
Deploy to web services like Container Instances or AKS with a scoring script.
Open-source MLflow doesn't support scoring scripts or batch execution.
Use the MLflow SDK if both of the following are true:
You're familiar with MLflow and want to continue using the same methods.
You're using a platform like Azure Databricks that supports MLflow natively.
Use the Azure Machine Learning CLI v2 or SDK for Python if any of the following is true:
You're familiar with the tool.
You want to automate deployment by using pipelines.
You want to store deployment configuration in a Git repository.
Use the Azure Machine Learning studio UI if you want to quickly deploy and test models trained with MLflow.
MLflow model deployment to online endpoints
MLflow model deployment to batch endpoints
Progressive rollout of MLflow models
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?