Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Azure Load Balancer?
On September 30, 2025, Basic Load Balancer was retired. For more information, see the
. If you're currently using Basic Load Balancer, upgrade to Standard Load Balancer as soon as possible. For guidance on upgrading, see
Upgrading from Basic Load Balancer - Guidance
Azure Load Balancer is a cloud service that distributes incoming network traffic across backend virtual machines (VMs) or virtual machine scale sets (VMSS). This article explains Azure Load Balancer's key features, architecture, and scenarios, helping you decide if it fits your organization's load balancing needs for scalable, highly available workloads.
refers to efficiently distributing incoming network traffic across a group of backend virtual machines (VMs) or virtual machine scale sets (VMSS).
Azure Load Balancer is one of the services that make up the Load Balancing and Content Delivery category in Azure. Other services in this category include
. Each service has its own unique features and use cases. For more information on this service category, see
Load Balancing and Content Delivery
Azure Load Balancer operates at layer 4 of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model. It's the single point of contact for clients. The service distributes inbound flows that arrive at the load balancer's frontend to backend pool instances. These flows are distributed according to configured load-balancing rules and health probes. The backend pool instances can be Azure virtual machines (VMs) or virtual machine scale sets.
can provide both inbound and outbound connectivity for the VMs inside your virtual network. For inbound traffic scenarios, Azure Load Balancer can load balance internet traffic to your VMs. For outbound traffic scenarios, the service can translate the VMs' private IP addresses to public IP addresses for any outbound connections that originate from your VMs.
internal (or private) load balancer
is used to load balance traffic inside a virtual network. By using an internal load balancer, you can provide inbound connectivity to your VMs in private network connectivity scenarios, such as accessing a load balancer frontend from an on-premises network in a hybrid scenario.
For more information on the service's individual components, see
Azure Load Balancer components
Azure Load Balancer has three SKUs - Basic, Standard, and Gateway. Each SKU caters to a specific scenario and has differences in scale, features, and pricing. For more information, see
Why use Azure Load Balancer
By using Azure Load Balancer, you can scale your applications and create highly available services. The service supports both inbound and outbound scenarios, provides low latency and high throughput, and scales up to millions of flows for all TCP and UDP applications.
Azure Load Balancer provides:
: Handle millions of flows for TCP and UDP applications.
: Use pass-through load balancing for ultralow latency.
multiple ports, multiple IP addresses, or both
to ensure traffic is only sent to healthy instances.
Traffic distribution scenarios
traffic to Azure virtual machines.
for Azure virtual machines.
Load balance TCP and UDP flow on all ports simultaneously using
to access virtual machines by public IP address and port.
load balancer resources across Azure regions.
Gateway load balancer integration
: Chain Standard Load Balancer and
Global load balancing integration
across multiple Azure regions
Override health probe behavior
for maintenance and operational management.
: Use multidimensional metrics through
Insights for Azure Load Balancer
with useful visualizations.
Standard load balancer diagnostics
and status changes for proactive management.
Load Balancer health status
: Gain deeper insights into the health of your load balancer through
Azure Load Balancer implements security through multiple layers:
is built on the Zero Trust network security model.
Part of your virtual network, which is private and isolated by default.
Standard load balancers and public IP addresses are
closed to inbound connections by default
Network Security Groups (NSGs)
must explicitly permit allowed traffic.
Traffic is blocked if no NSG exists on a subnet or NIC.
doesn't store customer data
All traffic processing happens in real-time without data persistence.
Basic Load Balancer is open to the internet by default and was retired on September 30, 2025. Migrate to Standard Load Balancer for enhanced security.
To learn about NSGs and how to apply them to your scenario, see
. For service-level agreements (SLAs), see the
Microsoft licensing information for online services
Basic Load Balancer is offered at no charge and has no SLA. It was retired on September 30, 2025.
Subscribe to the RSS feed and view the latest Azure Load Balancer updates on the
Create a public load balancer
Azure Load Balancer components
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?