Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Azure Network Watcher?
Azure Network Watcher provides a suite of tools to monitor, diagnose, view metrics, and enable or disable logs for Azure IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service) resources. Network Watcher enables you to monitor and repair the network health of IaaS products like virtual machines (VMs), virtual networks (VNets), application gateways, load balancers, etc. Network Watcher isn't designed or intended for PaaS monitoring or Web analytics.
Network Watcher consists of three major sets of tools and capabilities:
When you create or update a virtual network in your subscription, Network Watcher is automatically enabled in your virtual network's region. There's no impact on your resources or associated charge for automatically enabling Network Watcher. You must manually enable Network Watcher if you previously chose to opt out of Network Watcher automatic enablement. For more information, see
Enable or disable Network Watcher
Network Watcher offers two monitoring tools that help you view and monitor resources:
provides a visualization of the entire network for understanding network configuration. It provides an interactive interface to view resources and their relationships in Azure spanning across multiple subscriptions, resource groups, and locations. For more information, see
provides end-to-end connection monitoring for Azure and hybrid endpoints. It helps you understand network performance between various endpoints in your network infrastructure. For more information, see
Connection monitor overview
Monitor network communication between two virtual machines
Network Watcher offers seven network diagnostic tools that help troubleshoot and diagnose network issues:
allows you to detect traffic filtering issues at a virtual machine level. It checks if a packet is allowed or denied to or from an IP address (IPv4 or IPv6 address). It also tells you which security rule allowed or denied the traffic. For more information, see
Diagnose a virtual machine network traffic filter problem
allows you to detect traffic filtering issues at a virtual machine, virtual machine scale set, or application gateway level. It checks if a packet is allowed or denied to or from an IP address, IP prefix, or a service tag. It tells you which security rule allowed or denied the traffic. It also allows you to add a new security rule with a higher priority to allow or deny the traffic. For more information, see
Diagnose network security rules
allows you to detect routing issues. It checks if traffic is routed correctly to the intended destination. It provides you with information about the Next hop type, IP address, and Route table ID for a specific destination IP address. For more information, see
Diagnose a virtual machine network routing problem
allows you to view the effective security rules applied to a network interface. It shows you all security rules applied to the network interface, the subnet the network interface is in, and the aggregate of both. For more information, see
Effective security rules overview
View details of a security rule
enables you to test a connection between a virtual machine, a virtual machine scale set, an application gateway, or a Bastion host and a virtual machine, an FQDN, a URI, or an IPv4 address. The test returns similar information returned when using the
capability, but tests the connection at a point in time instead of monitoring it over time, as connection monitor does. For more information, see
Connection troubleshoot overview
Troubleshoot outbound connections with Azure Network Watcher
allows you to remotely create packet capture sessions to track traffic to and from a virtual machine (VM) or a virtual machine scale set. For more information, see
enables you to troubleshoot virtual network gateways and their connections. For more information, see
Diagnose a communication problem between networks
Network Watcher offers two traffic tools that help you log and visualize network traffic:
allows you to log information about your Azure IP traffic and stores the data in Azure storage. You can log IP traffic flowing through a network security group or Azure virtual network. For more information, see:
Network security group flow logs
Manage network security group flow logs
Manage virtual network flow logs
Network security group (NSG) flow logs retire on September 30, 2027. Because the feature is retiring, it no longer supports new NSG flow logs creation.
, which address the limitations of NSG flow logs. After the retirement date, Azure no longer supports traffic analytics enabled for NSG flow logs, and deletes existing NSG flow log resources in your subscriptions. However, Azure doesn't delete existing NSG flow log records from Azure Storage, and they continue to follow their configured retention policies. For more information, see the
provides rich visualizations of flow logs data. For more information about traffic analytics, see
Manage traffic analytics using Azure Policy
capability of Network Watcher provides a summary of your deployed network resources within a subscription and region, including current usage and corresponding limits for each resource. For more information, see
to learn about the limits for each Azure network resource per region per subscription. This information is helpful when planning future resource deployments as you can't create more resources if you reach their limits within the subscription or region.
Network Watcher has the following limits:
Network Watcher instances per region per subscription
1 (One instance in a region to enable access to the service in the region)
Connection monitors per region per subscription
Maximum test groups per a connection monitor
Maximum sources and destinations per a connection monitor
Maximum test configurations per a connection monitor
Packet capture sessions per region per subscription
10,000 (Number of sessions only, not saved captures)
VPN troubleshoot operations per subscription
1 (Number of operations at one time)
Service Level Agreement (SLA)
Service Level Agreements (SLA) for Online Services
Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
For answers to frequently asked questions about Network Watcher, see
To view the latest Network Watcher feature updates, see
To get started using Network Watcher diagnostic tools, see
Quickstart: Diagnose a virtual machine network traffic filter problem
To learn more about Network Watcher, see
Training module: Introduction to Azure Network Watcher
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?