Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Azure Traffic Manager?
Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic load balancer that distributes traffic to your public-facing applications across global Azure regions. Traffic Manager provides your public endpoints with high availability and quick responsiveness.
Traffic Manager uses DNS to direct client requests to the appropriate service endpoint based on a traffic-routing method. Traffic Manager also provides health monitoring for every endpoint. The endpoint can be any Internet-facing service hosted inside or outside of Azure. Traffic Manager provides a range of
endpoint monitoring options
to suit different application needs and automatic failover models. Traffic Manager is resilient to failure, including the failure of an entire Azure region.
Azure provides a suite of fully managed load-balancing solutions for your scenarios.
If you want to load balance between your servers in a region at the application layer, review
If you need to optimize global routing of your web traffic and optimize top-tier end-user performance and reliability through quick global failover, see
To do network layer load balancing, review
Your end-to-end scenarios might benefit from combining these solutions as needed.
For an Azure load-balancing options comparison, see
Overview of load-balancing options in Azure
For more information about Traffic Manager, see:
Increase application availability
Traffic Manager monitors your endpoints and provides automatic failover when an endpoint goes down, delivering high availability for your critical applications.
Improve application performance
Traffic Manager improves your application's responsiveness by directing traffic to the endpoint with the lowest latency for each user.
Service maintenance without downtime
Perform planned maintenance on your applications without downtime. Traffic Manager directs traffic to alternative endpoints while maintenance is in progress.
Combine hybrid applications
Traffic Manager supports external, non-Azure endpoints, enabling hybrid cloud and on-premises deployments including burst-to-cloud, migrate-to-cloud, and failover-to-cloud scenarios.
Distribute traffic for complex deployments
Combine multiple traffic-routing methods with
nested Traffic Manager profiles
to create sophisticated and flexible rules that scale to larger, more complex deployments.
Link DNS records directly to Traffic Manager
Traffic Manager Linked Records is currently in PREVIEW. See the
Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews
for legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, preview, or otherwise not yet released into general availability.
Traffic Manager Linked Records
is an Azure DNS feature that connects a DNS record set directly to a Traffic Manager profile. Clients receive endpoint IP addresses directly from DNS—without an intermediate CNAME lookup to
is never exposed in DNS responses, which simplifies firewall configurations and preserves the DNSSEC chain of trust for signed zones. Endpoint type consistency is enforced through
For pricing information, see
create a Traffic Manager profile
Traffic Manager Linked Records
for direct DNS-to-Traffic Manager integration.
frequently asked questions
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?