Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Whether you're delivering content and files or developing global applications and APIs, Azure Front Door enhances your user experience by providing higher availability, reduced latency, increased scalability, and improved security. It provides these benefits no matter where your users are located.
Azure Front Door is an advanced content delivery network (CDN) for the cloud. It's designed to provide fast, reliable, and secure access to your applications' static and dynamic web content globally. By using Microsoft's extensive global edge network, Azure Front Door provides efficient content delivery through
global and local points of presence (PoPs)
strategically positioned close to both enterprise and consumer users.
For web workloads, we highly recommend that you use
to safeguard against emerging DDoS attacks. Another option is to employ
along with a web application firewall. Azure Front Door offers
against network-level DDoS attacks. For more information, see
Security baseline for Azure services
Azure Front Door is one of the services in the category of load-balancing and content delivery services in Azure. Other services in this category include
. Each service has its own unique features and use cases. For more information on this service category, see
What is load balancing and content delivery?
Azure Front Door enables internet-facing applications to:
Build and operate modern internet-first architectures
that have dynamic, high-quality digital experiences with highly automated, secure, and reliable platforms.
Accelerate and deliver your applications and content globally
at scale to your users wherever they are. This ability creates opportunities for you to compete and quickly adapt to new demand and markets.
Help secure your digital estate
against known and new threats with intelligent security that embraces a Zero Trust framework.
What are the key benefits?
Global delivery scale through the Microsoft network
Scale out and improve the performance of your applications and content by using Microsoft's global cloud CDN and wide area network (WAN):
Take advantage of more than
across 100 metro areas connected to Azure by using a private enterprise-grade WAN. Improve latency for applications by up to three times.
Accelerate application performance by using the Azure Front Door
Terminate SSL offload at the edge and use integrated
Natively support end-to-end IPv6 connectivity and the HTTP/2 protocol.
Delivery of modern apps and architectures
Modernize your internet-first applications on Azure with cloud-native experiences:
Integrate with DevOps-friendly command-line tools across SDKs of different languages, Bicep, Azure Resource Manager templates, the Azure CLI, and PowerShell.
with flexible domain validation.
Load balance and route traffic across
monitoring across apps or content hosted in Azure or anywhere.
Integrate with other Azure services, such as Azure DNS, the Web Apps feature of Azure App Service, Azure Storage, and many more for domain and origin management.
Move your routing business logic to the edge with
capabilities, including regular expressions and server variables.
with an all-in-one dashboard for both Azure Front Door and security patterns.
Monitor your Azure Front Door traffic in real time
, and configure alerts that integrate with Azure Monitor.
Log each Azure Front Door request
Simplicity and cost-effectiveness
Unified static and dynamic delivery offered in a single tier to accelerate and scale your application through caching, SSL offload, and layer 3-4 DDoS protection.
autorotation-managed SSL certificates
that save time and help quickly secure apps and content.
Low entry fee and a simplified cost model that reduces billing complexity by having fewer meters to plan for.
Integrated egress pricing that removes the separate egress charge from Azure regions to Azure Front Door. For more information, see
Intelligent, secure internet perimeter
Help secure applications with built-in layer 3-4 DDoS protection, a seamlessly attached
Azure DNS to help protect your domains
Help protect your applications against layer 7 DDoS attacks by using a WAF. For more information, see
Application DDoS protection
Help protect your applications from malicious actors with bot manager rules based on Microsoft Threat Intelligence.
Privately connect to your origin behind Azure Front Door by using
, and embrace a Zero Trust access model.
Provide a centralized security experience for your application via Azure Policy and Azure Advisor that provides consistent security features across apps.
How do you choose between Azure Front Door tiers?
For a comparison of supported features in Azure Front Door, see
Where is the service available?
Azure Front Door Standard, Premium, and Classic tiers are available in Microsoft Azure (Commercial) and Microsoft Azure Government (US).
For pricing information, see
. For information about service-level agreement (SLA), see
Microsoft SLA for online services
Subscribe to the RSS feed, and view the latest Azure Front Door feature updates on the
Azure Front Door routing architecture
create an Azure Front Door profile
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?