Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Azure Application Gateway?
Azure Application Gateway is a web traffic load balancer that helps you manage traffic to your web applications. Unlike traditional load balancers that route traffic based on IP address and port, Application Gateway makes intelligent routing decisions based on HTTP request attributes like URL paths and host headers.
For example, you can route requests with
in the URL to servers optimized for images, while routing
requests to servers optimized for video content. This application layer routing gives you more control over how traffic flows to your applications.
Application Gateway operates at the application layer (OSI layer 7) and provides features like SSL/TLS termination, autoscaling, zone redundancy, and integration with Web Application Firewall for security.
Azure provides a suite of fully managed load-balancing solutions for your scenarios.
If you want to do DNS based global routing and don't need Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol termination ("SSL offload"), per-HTTP/HTTPS request, or application-layer processing, review
If you need to optimize global routing of your web traffic and optimize top-tier end-user performance and reliability through quick global failover, see
To do transport layer load balancing, review
Your end-to-end scenarios can benefit from combining these solutions as needed.
For an overview of the load balancing and content delivery services in Azure, see
Load Balancing and Content Delivery
To learn about Application Gateway features, see
Azure Application Gateway features
To learn about Application Gateway infrastructure, see
Azure Application Gateway infrastructure configuration
Protect your applications against L7 layer DDoS protection by using WAF. For more information, see
Application DDoS protection
Protect your apps from malicious actors with Bot manager rules based on Microsoft’s own Threat Intelligence.
Secure applications against L3 and L4 DDoS attacks with
Privately connect to your backend behind Application Gateway with
and embrace a zero-trust access model.
Eliminate risk of data exfiltration and control privacy of communication from within the virtual network with a fully
Private-only Application Gateway deployment
Provide a centralized security experience for your application via Azure Policy, Azure Advisor, and Microsoft Sentinel integration that ensures consistent security features across apps.
For Application Gateway pricing information, see
Application Gateway pricing
For Application Gateway SLA information, see
To learn what's new with Azure Application Gateway, see
Depending on your requirements and environment, you can create a test Application Gateway by using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, or Azure CLI.
Quickstart: Direct web traffic with Azure Application Gateway - Azure portal
Quickstart: Direct web traffic with Azure Application Gateway - Azure PowerShell
Quickstart: Direct web traffic with Azure Application Gateway - Azure CLI
Learn module: Introduction to Azure Application Gateway
How an application gateway works
Frequently asked questions about Azure Application Gateway
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?