Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
What is Azure Private Link?
Azure Private Link enables you to access Azure PaaS Services (for example, Azure Storage and SQL Database) and Azure hosted customer-owned/partner services over a
Traffic between your virtual network and the service travels the Microsoft backbone network. Exposing your service to the public internet is no longer necessary. You can create your own
in your virtual network and deliver it to your customers. Setup and consumption using Azure Private Link is consistent across Azure PaaS, customer-owned, and shared partner services.
Azure Private Link is now generally available. Both Private Endpoint and Private Link service (service behind standard load balancer) are generally available. Different Azure PaaS will onboard to Azure Private Link at different schedules. See
for an accurate status of Azure PaaS on Private Link. For known limitations, see
The feature Private Link Service Direct Connect, which allows you to connect to any privately routable destination IP address, is now in public preview. For more information and known limitations, see
Private Link Service Direct Connect
Azure Private Link support over IPv6 is now in public preview in limited regions. For more information, see
Azure Private Link over IPv6 (Preview)
Azure Private Link is one of the services that make up the Network Foundations category in Azure. Other services in this category include
. Each service has its own unique features and use cases. For more information on this service category, see
For scenarios that involve public internet PaaS traffic, configure
network security perimeter
to set up a secure logical boundary. Network security perimeter restricts communication to services within its perimeter, and it allows nonperimeter public traffic through inbound and outbound access rules. For scalable IaaS-to-PaaS connectivity with centralized access control, see
Network security perimeter is now generally available in all Azure public cloud regions and in Azure Government regions (US Gov Virginia, US Gov Texas, US Gov Arizona, US DoD East and US DoD Central). For information on supported services, see
Onboarded private link resources
for supported PaaS services.
Azure Private Link provides the following benefits:
Privately access services on the Azure platform
: Connect your virtual network using private endpoints to all services that can be used as application components in Azure. Service providers can render their services in their own virtual network and consumers can access those services in their local virtual network. The Private Link platform handles the connectivity between the consumer and services over the Azure backbone network.
On-premises and peered networks
: Access services running in Azure from on-premises over ExpressRoute private peering, VPN tunnels, and peered virtual networks using private endpoints. There's no need to configure ExpressRoute Microsoft peering or traverse the internet to reach the service. Private Link provides a secure way to migrate workloads to Azure.
Protection against data leakage
: A private endpoint is mapped to an instance of a PaaS resource instead of the entire service. Consumers can only connect to the specific resource. Access to any other resource in the service is blocked. This mechanism provides protection against data leakage risks.
: Connect privately to services running in other regions. The consumer's virtual network could be in region A and it can connect to services behind Private Link in region B.
Extend to your own services
: Enable the same experience and functionality to render your service privately to consumers in Azure. By placing your service behind a standard Azure Load Balancer, you can enable it for Private Link. The consumer can then connect directly to your service using a private endpoint in their own virtual network. You can manage the connection requests using an approval call flow. Azure Private Link works for consumers and services belonging to different Microsoft Entra tenants.
Azure Private Link, along with Azure Virtual Network, span across
and are therefore zone resilient. To provide high availability for the Azure resource using a private endpoint, ensure that resource is zone resilient.
For information on Azure services that support Private Link, see
Azure Private Link availability
For the most up-to-date notifications, check the
Azure Private Link updates page
Azure Private Link has integration with Azure Monitor. This combination allows:
Archival of logs to a storage account.
Streaming of events to your Event Hubs.
You can access the following information on Azure Monitor:
Data processed by the Private Endpoint  (IN/OUT)
Data processed by the Private Link service (IN/OUT)
Azure Private Link pricing
For service level agreement, see
SLA for Azure Private Link
Quickstart: Create a Private Endpoint using Azure portal
Quickstart: Create a Private Link service by using the Azure portal
Learn module: Introduction to Azure Private Link
Need help with this topic?
Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic?